---
weight: 1
slug: church-planting-and-growth-0
title:  Course Syllabus 
cn: 课程大纲
author: CSI
kecheng: Church Planting And Growth
---


CSI – Church-Mission-Ministry

TEST REVIEW SHEET

Test Date: Monday, April 23, 2012

Weight: This test is worth 40% of your final grade.

Terms:

• Election

• Universal / Objective justification

• Personal / Subjective Justification

• Means of grace

• Conversion

• Church

(Invisible) Church

(Visible) church

• Marks of the Church

• Public confession (of faith)

• Outreach

• Evangelism

• Nurture

• Proselytizing

• Sufficient word

• Efficacious word

• Adiaphora

• Christian Freedom

• Universal Priesthood

• Personal Ministry

• Public Ministry

• Qualifications for Public Ministry

• Synod

Concepts:

• What is the Church?

• Where is the Church?

• What is the Church's Mission?

• How does a church balance Outreach and Nurture?

• What does the fact that the Word is Sufficient and Efficacious mean for the work of a church?

• What does our Christian Freedom mean for how we do ministry?

• What is the role of the pastor (and other leaders of a Church)?

• What is the biblically proper role for men and women in the church? How should we apply it to our work in the church?

Format

• Multiple Choice / True or false Questions (50 points)

• Short Answer / Short Essay (50 points)

CSI – Church-Mission-Ministry

Pastor / Church Leader Interview

Due Date: May 1st, 2012

Weight: This project is worth 20% of your final grade.

1) Describe your definition of “Church”.

2) What is the mission of the church? (What mission statement do you have for your church?)

3) How does your church balance nurture and outreach?

4) Does your church have a “call” system? If so, please describe how it works. (How do pastors get positions of being a pastor of a church?)

5) How is your church structured? (Full time workers, pastors, elders, deacons, deaconesses, etc.; how are people chosen, what sort of training system is there for church workers, etc.)

6) Other (You may ask other questions as you see fit.)

Requirements: Each student should interview one Pastor or church leader. (Interview by phone or E-mail is fine.) You can interview your own leader, or someone else you know. The results should be written into a final report showing the results of your interview and what those results show you.

The final report can be in Chinese or English.
