---
weight: 1
slug: Old-Testament-overview-Engel-1
title:  第一课(Lesson1)旧约概论介绍
author: Pastor Engel
kecheng: Old Testament Overview-En
---

第一课(Lesson＃1)旧约概论介绍
Old Testament Overview
Introduction:
Why study the Old Testament?
NIV John 5:39 You diligently study the Scriptures because you think that by them you possess eternal life. These are the Scriptures that testify about me,
NIV Romans 15:4 For everything that was written in the past was written to teach us, so that through endurance and the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.
NIV Acts 17:11 Now the Bereans were of more noble character than the Thessalonians, for they received the message with great eagerness and examined the Scriptures every day to see if what Paul said was true.
NIV Luke 24:27 And beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the Scriptures concerning himself. 32 They asked each other, "Were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the Scriptures to us?"
NIV Hebrews 1:1 In the past God spoke to our forefathers through the prophets at many times and in various ways,
NIV Romans 1:1 Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle and set apart for the gospel of God-- 2 the gospel he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures
Who are some of the writers of the Old Testament books of the Bible?
When was the Old Testament written?
Why is the Old Testament sometimes overlooked in Bible study and reading the Scriptures?
Were the Old Testament people who lived before Jesus saved in a different way than people who live(d) in the New Testament era?
What are some obstacles when it comes to reading and studying the Old Testament?
How will the Lord bless your study of the Old Testament?
Two questions that I have about the Old Testament are:
1.
2.
Put the following saying into your own words:
The New is in the Old contained.
The Old is in the New explained.
The New is in the Old concealed.
The Old is in the New revealed.
Fill in the blank: The Old Testament is about
The Old Testament:
39 books written in the Hebrew language (with portions in Aramaic)
Written during a span of about 1000 years (1000 – 400 B.C.)
Three main types of literature:
o History
o Poetry
o Prophecy
The Old Testament prepares us for our understanding of Jesus’ ministry.
The Old Testament records the history of our salvation.
The Old Testament reveals the sinfulness of humans and their desperate need for a Savior.
The Old Testament illustrates the life of every believer in the struggle with sin and the longing for our eternal home.
Major themes of the Old Testament:
o God reveals himself.
o God creates the heavens and the earth.
o Sin, disobedience and punishment.
o Promise of Christ.
o God’s chosen people.
o Covenant.
o Tabernacle.
o Sacrifice.
o Atonement.
o Redemption.
o Prophet, priest and king.
o Temple.
o Exile.
o Deliverance.
o The new heavens and the new earth.
o Law.
o Gospel.
o Broken promises by God’s people.
o Unbroken promises by God.


alt
God chose his people to bring his message of salvation, forgiveness and deliverance to a sinful world. Through David’s line he would send a Savior to defeat sin, death and the devil.
I. The First Messianic Promise
NIV Genesis 3:14 So the LORD God said to the serpent, "Because you have done this, "Cursed are you above all the livestock and all the wild animals! You will crawl on your belly and you will eat dust all the days of your life. 15 And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and hers; he will crush your head, and you will strike his heel."
In founding and choosing the nation of Israel, God brought about, in a world of pagan idolatry, a people who gave testimony to the true eternal God as the only Savior. This nation of Israel was part of God’s eternal plan to bring Christ into this world. We first read about this Savior in Genesis 3:14-15.
What had just happened before God spoke these words in verses 14 and 15?
From what consequence of sin did Adam and Eve need to be saved?
Identify to whom the pronouns refer in verses 14 and 15?
How do these words here point to the death and resurrection of Jesus?
II. God Chooses His People
NIV Genesis 12:1 The LORD had said to Abram, "Leave your country, your people and your father's household and go to the land I will show you. 2 "I will make you into a great nation and I will bless you; I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. 3 I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you I will curse; and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you."
Abraham was 75 years old when he heard this promise.
How would all nations on earth be blessed through Abraham?
Look up Matthew 1:2-16. Whose name begins the genealogy? Whose name is at the end? Why is this important?

III. The Role of God’s Chosen People
NIV Exodus 19:3 Then Moses went up to God, and the LORD called to him from the mountain and said, "This is what you are to say to the house of Jacob and what you are to tell the people of Israel: 4 'You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt, and how I carried you on eagles' wings and brought you to myself. 5 Now if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all nations you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, 6 you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation.' These are the words you are to speak to the Israelites."
God spoke these words through Moses after his people had been rescued from Egyptian slavery and brought to Mt. Sinai. How do these verses describe Israel’s deliverance?
What does God promise Israel if they follow his will?
In what way will Old Testament Israel be set apart from all other nations?
NIV Jeremiah 3:22 "Return, faithless people; I will cure you of backsliding." "Yes, we will come to you, for you are the LORD our God. 23 Surely the idolatrous commotion on the hills and mountains is a deception; surely in the LORD our God is the salvation of Israel. 24 From our youth shameful gods have consumed the fruits of our fathers' labor-- their flocks and herds, their sons and daughters. 25 Let us lie down in our shame, and let our disgrace cover us. We have sinned against the LORD our God, both we and our fathers; from our youth till this day we have not obeyed the LORD our God."
Did the people of Israel live up to their end of the two-sided covenant?
How did God use the prophets during those times when the faithless people of Israel were backsliding in their sins?
The fall of Jerusalem in 586 B.C. (cf. 2 Kings 25) and the exile of the people of Judah into Babylon seemed to be the end of God’s chosen people and the end of God’s promises.
NIV Jeremiah 31:31 "The time is coming," declares the LORD, "when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. 32 It will not be like the covenant I made with their forefathers when I took them by the hand to lead them out of Egypt, because they broke my covenant, though I was a husband to them," declares the LORD. 33 "This is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel after that time," declares the LORD. "I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people. 34 No longer will a man teach his neighbor, or a man his brother, saying, 'Know the LORD,' because they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest," declares the LORD. "For I will forgive their wickedness and will remember their sins no more."
Had God abandoned the people when they were carried into exile?
What was God going to do?

IV. A Savior through David’s Line
NIV 2 Samuel 7:4 That night the word of the LORD came to Nathan, saying: 5 "Go and tell my servant David, 'This is what the LORD says: Are you the one to build me a house to dwell in? 6 I have not dwelt in a house from the day I brought the Israelites up out of Egypt to this day. I have been moving from place to place with a tent as my dwelling. 7 Wherever I have moved with all the Israelites, did I ever say to any of their rulers whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, "Why have you not built me a house of cedar?"' 8 "Now then, tell my servant David, 'This is what the LORD Almighty says: I took you from the pasture and from following the flock to be ruler over my people Israel. 9 I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you. Now I will make your name great, like the names of the greatest men of the earth. 10 And I will provide a place for my people Israel and will plant them so that they can have a home of their own and no longer be disturbed. Wicked people will not oppress them anymore, as they did at the beginning 11 and have done ever since the time I appointed leaders over my people Israel. I will also give you rest from all your enemies. "'The LORD declares to you that the LORD himself will establish a house for you: 12 When your days are over and you rest with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, who will come from your own body, and I will establish his kingdom. 13 He is the one who will build a house for my Name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. 14 I will be his father, and he will be my son. When he does wrong, I will punish him with the rod of men, with floggings inflicted by men. 15 But my love will never be taken away from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. 16 Your house and your kingdom will endure forever before me; your throne will be established forever.'" 17 Nathan reported to David all the words of this entire revelation.
For about 500 years, God’s dwelling place among his people had been the tabernacle. The tabernacle was a temporary structure that could be moved from place to place. The tabernacle was central to the worship lives of the Old Testament people Israel. David wanted to build a temple, or a “house” that was permanent. But who would give a “house” to whom?
For how long would this house and kingdom last?
To Discuss:
1. In a special act of creation, God made Adam and Eve. He chose them to reflect his image of goodness and holiness. But they deliberately disobeyed the Lord and were exiled from Eden. One of their descendants was Abraham. God chose Abraham’s descendants to be his chosen people. This people who would descend from Abraham would be the nation through whom God’s goodness, mercy and love would be shown in the flesh and blood of Jesus of Nazareth. In his supreme act of undeserved love, God sent Jesus, his Son, to be the sacrificial Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Now all people are called by this good news to be God’s chosen people. What does this demonstrate about God’s grace as he directed the course of history?

2. Do you feel worthy to be God’s chosen one in Christ Jesus? Why? Why not?

3. From the beginning, God had great plans for his chosen people. He protected them with mighty works and explained his plans for them in his Word. Read Deuteronomy 4:32-39. What special relationship did the Israelites have with the true God? Why?
NIV Deuteronomy 4:32 Ask now about the former days, long before your time, from the day God created man on the earth; ask from one end of the heavens to the other. Has anything so great as this ever happened, or has anything like it ever been heard of? 33 Has any other people heard the voice of God speaking out of fire, as you have, and lived? 34 Has any god ever tried to take for himself one nation out of another nation, by testings, by miraculous signs and wonders, by war, by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, or by great and awesome deeds, like all the things the LORD your God did for you in Egypt before your very eyes? 35 You were shown these things so that you might know that the LORD is God; besides him there is no other. 36 From heaven he made you hear his voice to discipline you. On earth he showed you his great fire, and you heard his words from out of the fire. 37 Because he loved your forefathers and chose their descendants after them, he brought you out of Egypt by his Presence and his great strength, 38 to drive out before you nations greater and stronger than you and to bring you into their land to give it to you for your inheritance, as it is today. 39 Acknowledge and take to heart this day that the LORD is God in heaven above and on the earth below. There is no other.

4. Asaph proclaims God’s mighty acts for his people and encourages them to join him in praising God. Read Psalm 78:1-7. Why was it important that each new generation among the Israelites learn of God’s plans for them?
NIV Psalm 78:1 O my people, hear my teaching; listen to the words of my mouth. 2 I will open my mouth in parables, I will utter hidden things, things from of old-- 3 what we have heard and known, what our fathers have told us. 4 We will not hide them from their children; we will tell the next generation the praiseworthy deeds of the LORD, his power, and the wonders he has done. 5 He decreed statutes for Jacob and established the law in Israel, which he commanded our forefathers to teach their children, 6 so the next generation would know them, even the children yet to be born, and they in turn would tell their children. 7 Then they would put their trust in God and would not forget his deeds but would keep his commands.
5. God gave Israel his Word in writing. After the Israelites returned home from exile in Babylon, God gathered his people around
the Word. Read Ezra 7:6,10 and Nehemiah 8:1-3. Why was the written Word of God so important for his Old Testament people?
NIV Ezra 7:6 this Ezra came up from Babylon. He was a teacher well versed in the Law of Moses, which the LORD, the God of Israel, had given. The king had granted him everything he asked, for the hand of the LORD his God was on him. 10 For Ezra had devoted himself to the study and observance of the Law of the LORD, and to teaching its decrees and laws in Israel.
NIV Nehemiah 8:1 all the people assembled as one man in the square before the Water Gate. They told Ezra the scribe to bring out the Book of the Law of Moses, which the LORD had commanded for Israel. 2 So on the first day of the seventh month Ezra the priest brought the Law before the assembly, which was made up of men and women and all who were able to understand. 3 He read it aloud from daybreak till noon as he faced the square before the Water Gate in the presence of the men, women and others who could understand. And all the people listened attentively to the Book of the Law.
6. God carried out his plan to save the world through his Son who revealed his Word in a special way. Read Hebrews 1:1-3. Why is Christ the key to understanding God’s whole plan?
NIV Hebrews 1:1 In the past God spoke to our forefathers through the prophets at many times and in various ways, 2 but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, and through whom he made the universe. 3 The Son is the radiance of God's glory and the exact representation of his being, sustaining all things by his powerful word. After he had provided purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty in heaven.
