---
weight: 2
slug: Old-Testament-overview-Engel-2
title:  第二课(Lesson2)创造与受造
author: Pastor Engel
kecheng: Old Testament Overview-En
---

第二课(Lesson＃2)创造与受造
alt
The Prelude To The Promise: Creator and Creation



Read Genesis 1:1-25

1. Who is the very first named subject in the Bible?
2. God doesn’t begin the revelation of his Word by proving his existence. What does this tell us about the purpose of the Bible?
3. The very first name for God used in the Bible is Elohim. This name for God is used 31 times in the creation account and more than 2500 times in the entire Old Testament. This is the name for God that reveals him as the almighty God, the God of unlimited power and indescribable majesty. The Hebrew name Elohim is a noun that is plural in form. We translate it as a singular but in form it is plural. How amazing this revelation is! In the third word of the Bible (in the Hebrew text) God lays the groundwork to reveal to us that the true God is the Triune God. How do each of the following verses supply further revelation?
NIV Genesis 1:26 Then God said, "Let us make man in our image, in our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air, over the livestock, over all the earth, and over all the creatures that move along the ground."
NIV Deuteronomy 32:6 Is this the way you repay the LORD, O foolish and unwise people? Is he not your Father, your Creator, who made you and formed you?
NIV Genesis 1:2 Now the earth was formless and empty, darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters.
NIV John 1:1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 2 He was with God in the beginning. 3 Through him all things were made; without him nothing was made that has been made. 14 The Word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the One and Only, who came from the Father, full of grace and truth.
NIV Colossians 1:16 For by him all things were created: things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers or authorities; all things were created by him and for him.
4. The very first verb of the Bible is never used in the Old Testament with a subject other than God and only of a unique action God carries out. The word “create” in itself does not imply to make something out of nothing, though sometimes that is clearly what it means. From what did God create? With what did God create?
5. The six days of creation:
Day One:
Day Two:
Day Three:
Day Four:
Day Five:
Day Six:
6. What connection is there between days one and four? Days two and five? Days three and six?
7. Throughout the creation account we hear the phrase “and it was good” repeated. What does this reveal about God’s creation? What does this phrase say to those people who hold that material things are in and of themselves evil?
8. Consider what God created on days four, five and six. List ways that those gifts of God are used properly. List ways that those gifts are misused.
9. A friend of yours believes that each day of creation represents a much longer period of time. How would you use this section of the Bible to show that such an interpretation is incorrect?
10. What attributes or characteristics of God are revealed in the account of creation?

Read Genesis 1:26-2:25
11. How does Genesis 1:26 set God’s next creative act over and above all the others?
12. What does it mean that God “created man in his own image?” Consider the following:
NIV Colossians 3:10 and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge in the image of its Creator.
NIV Ephesians 4:24 and to put on the new self, created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness.
Formula of Concord, Epitome VI 2 – “Even our first parents before the fall did not live without Law. They had God’s law written into their hearts, because they were created in God’s image.”
13. In Genesis 2:3 we read that God had finished all of his creating activity. Is what follows in chapter two another creation account? Explain your answer.
14. In Genesis 2:4 we find another name for God. Here he is called “the LORD God.” This is Yahweh. God revealed to Moses exactly what this name meant at the burning bush (Exodus 3:14 – “I AM WHO I AM.” Exodus 3:15 – “The LORD, the God of your father – the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob…the name by which I am to be remembered from generation to generation.”) This is the most common name for God in the Old Testament and it is used more than 5000 times. Yahweh is God’s Old Testament Savior name. When God reveals himself as “LORD God” he is making himself known to us that he deals with us not only in power and majesty but also in faithful love.
15. What do we learn of the original world in the following verses?
Verses 4-6 –
Verse 7 –
Verse 8 –
Verse 9 –
Verses 10-14 –
Verse 15 –
Verses 16 and 17 –
Verse 18 –
Verses 19 and 20 –
Verses 21-24 –
Verse 25 –
16. Consider the gifts of God you noted in number 15. How has sin and society ruined or tried to redefine those gifts?
17. Much has been written about the two special trees God gave Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, especially in the light of God’s perfect foreknowledge of what would happen in Genesis 3. Luther’s thoughts on this verse are worth noting: “And so when Adam had been created in such a way that he was, as it were, intoxicated with rejoicing toward God and was delighted also with all the other creatures, there is now created a new tree for the distinguishing of good and evil, so that Adam might have a definite way to express his worship and reverence toward God. After everything had been entrusted to him to make use of it according to his will, whether he wished to do so for necessity or for pleasure, God finally demands from Adam that at this tree of the knowledge of good and evil he demonstrate his reverence and obedience toward God and that he maintain this practice, as it were, of worshiping God by not eating anything from it.”
But this tree of the knowledge of good and evil was Adam’s church, altar, and pulpit. Here he was to yield to God the obedience he owed, give recognition to the Word and will of God, give thanks to God, and call upon God for aid against temptation.”
18. Part of Adam and Eve’s joy in the perfectly created world in which they lived was that they were created with the joy of serving each other. There was a created order in their world in which Adam was the head and Eve was his suitable helper. Adam was the leader and Eve his helpmate. How does this truth stand with the world today? Is this still God’s will in our day? How can you be sure?
19. When God instituted marriage between Adam and Eve he revealed that the two were to have children. Another divine purpose of God-given marriage is that they were to provide companionship for one another and joyfully serve one another. Adam’s reaction to the Lord’s loving purposes of marriage is seen in verse 23. After sin entered the world, what additional purpose does marriage serve?
20. One of the basic questions in life is: How did I get here? A variation on that question is: How did this world get here? Many people have many opinions about the question. What ideas have you heard about how the earth and human beings came into existence? How does Genesis 1 and 2 answer these questions? How does Hebrews 11:1 answer the questions?
Miscellaneous Notes:
 I believe in God, the Father almighty, maker of heaven and earth.
What does this mean?
I believe that God created me and all that exists, and that he gave me my body and soul, eyes, ears and all my members, my mind and all my abilities. And I believe that God still preserves me by richly and daily providing clothing and shoes, food and drink, house and home, spouse and children, land, cattle, and all I own, and all I need to keep my body and life. God also preserves me by defending me against all danger, guarding and protecting me from all evil. All this God does only because he is my good and merciful Father in heaven, and not because I have earned or deserved it. For all this I ought to thank and praise, to serve and obey him. This is most certainly true. (The First Article, Luther’s Small Catechism)
The Age of the Earth: In the Bible, we plainly see that the age of the earth is not measured in millions or billions of years. In our universe, we clearly see evidence of the same. God has not revealed the exact age of the earth. Much has been written concerning the age of the earth. For our purposes we hold that the Biblical evidence supports a total age of the earth of around 10,000 year or less.
Beginning History of God’s Saving Activity:The book of Genesis is divided into 10 “histories” or “accounts.” Page through the book and note each one:
1.      Genesis 2:4 – 4:26 –        The account of                              .
2.      Genesis 5:1 – 6:8 –          The account of                                       .
3.      Genesis 6:9 – 9:29 –        The account of                                       .
4.      Genesis 10:1 – 11:9 –      The account of                               .
5.      Genesis 11:10 – 26 –       The account of                                       .
6.      Genesis 11:27 – 25:11 – The account of                               .
7.      Genesis 25:12 – 18 –       The account of                                       .
8.      Genesis 25:19 – 35:29 – The account of                                       .
9.      Genesis 36:1 – 37:1 –      The account of                                       .
10.    Genesis 37:2 – 50:26 –    The account of                                       .

A Book of Doctrine:  Though written about 3400 years ago, Genesis still reveals the main doctrines of the Bible:
God’s eternal nature
The Holy Trinity
God’s creation of the world and mankind
The real and true history of Adam and Eve
Our sin – where it comes from; how we get it; what it deserves
Mankind is accountable to God for sin
God’s solution to sin and death; his plan to save
Justification by faith
Summary and Review:

Genesis 1:1-13	The World Created for Life
Genesis 1:14-25	The World Filled with Created Life
Genesis 1:26-31; 2:5-25	Man and Woman Created as Crown of Creation
Genesis 2:1-3; Hebrews 4:1-13	The Sabbath Rest
Job 38, 39	God Proclaims His Creation to Job
Psalm 104	Praise the Lord Who Creates Wonders

Prepare for Next Time: Please read the following references that are in bold print. If you have time, read all of them.

Genesis 3:1-13	The Fall into Sin
Genesis 3:14-24	The Promise of a Savior
Genesis 4:1-16	The First Murder
Genesis 4:17-5:32	Evil Reigns and Death’s Bell Tolls
Genesis 6:1-8:19	The Great Flood
Genesis 8:20-9:17	A Covenant after the Great Flood
Genesis 9:18-11:26	More Sin…More Grace
