---
weight: 3
slug: Old-Testament-overview-Engel-3
title:  第三课(Lesson3)神赐应许
author: Pastor Engel
kecheng: Old Testament Overview-En
---

第三课(Lesson＃3)神赐应许
alt
The Promise Is Given
Opening Prayer: CWS 754, The Tree of Life
The tree of life with ev’ry good In Eden’s holy orchard stood,
And of its fruit so pure and sweet God let the man and woman eat.
Yet in this garden also grew Another tree, of which they knew;
Its lovely limbs with fruit adorned Against whose eating God had warned.
The stillness of that sacred grove Was broken as the serpent strove
With tempting voice Eve to beguile And Adam to by sin defile.
Oh, day of sadness when the breath Of fear and darkness, doubt and death,
Its awful poison first displayed Within the world so newly made.
What mercy God showed to our race, A plan of rescue by his grace:
In sending One from woman’s seed, The One to fill our greatest need—
For on a tree uplifted high His only Son for sin would die,
Would drink the cup of scorn and dread To crush the ancient serpent’s head!
Now from that tree of Jesus’ shame Flows life eternal in his name;
For all who trust and will believe, Salvation’s living fruit receive.
And of this fruit so pure and sweet The Lord invites the world to eat,
To find within this cross of wood The tree of life with ev’ry good.
Text: Stephen P. Starke, b. 1955 © 1993 Stephen P. Starke; admin. Concordia Publishing House. All rights reserved. Used by permission.
Introduction:
 Why is the world so evil? Why so much pain? Why so much wickedness? Why so much suffering? Why do we die? Are people generally good and only their environment and upbringing makes them evil?
NIV 2 Peter 2:4 For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but sent them to hell, putting them into gloomy dungeons to be held for judgment;
NIV Jude 1:6 And the angels who did not keep their positions of authority but abandoned their own home-- these he has kept in darkness, bound with everlasting chains for judgment on the great Day.
NIV Revelation 12:9 The great dragon was hurled down-- that ancient serpent called the devil, or Satan, who leads the whole world astray. He was hurled to the earth, and his angels with him.
After the six days during which God made the heavens and the earth, God’s creation was perfect. Along with her Creator, the creation enjoyed the very first seventh day. All functioned without interruption or fail. No sin marred or spoiled what Elohim had made. On the basis of the three passages above, describe what happened sometime between the seventh day and the rebellion of Adam and Eve in the Garden.
Read Genesis 3:1-13 – The Fall into Sin
1. Identify the ways Satan deceived Eve.
2. Identify the effects of sin entering the perfect world.
3. What truths does verse 6 speak to relying on our senses as an indicator to tell us whether something is pleasing in God’s sight?
4. How is Adam’s answer to God so illustrative of how people act when they are confronted with their sin?
5. Give examples of how Satan still uses his, “Did God really say…” today.
6. What name is used for God in verse 8 and following? What significance is there in this?
7. Agree or disagree? In choosing to eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, Eve showed she loved Satan more than God.
8. Where do you see God’s love for rebellious Adam and Eve in verses 8-13?
9. Consider the testimony of the Lutheran Confessions: 5 All this is the old devil and old serpent [Revelation 12:9], who also turned Adam and Eve into enthusiasts. He led them away from God’s outward Word to spiritualizing and self-pride [Genesis 3:2–5]. And yet, he did this through other outward words. (Smalcald Articles, III, VIII, 5)

Genesis 3:14-24 – The Promise of a Savior
10. The LORD God sentenced the serpent to crawl on his belly and to eat dust all the days of his life. Of what is this a sign?
11. Verses 14 and 15 are the very first promise of the Gospel – the promise of the Redeemer and Savior. Following the first sin, there was enmity…enmity between the first humans and God…enmity between Adam and Eve. God was going to intervene and redirect that enmity to where it should be directed…to Satan, man and woman’s great enemy. God would do this in the only way that would help mankind. God would recreate faith in the hearts of Adam and Eve in him as their only God and Savior. Adam and Eve were now powerless to direct their enmity toward their great adversary. God would have to intervene and take action. This hatred of the devil that dwells in the heart of faith was not only for Adam and Eve. This holy hatred for Satan would come with the gift of faith to all of Eve’s offspring, that is, all believing descendants of her. Along with this hatred of the devil and his will would come a hatred of all who follow the devil, that is, all who are his spiritual descendants, all unbelievers.
God then moves to the pinnacle of the Promise in verse 15. Here we have the heart and core of the Gospel. God proclaimed that a descendant of Eve, one who would who stand in the place of all mankind as a Substitute, would crush the head of the Serpent. This great Seed of the woman would win the great and final victory over Satan and would destroy all of his work. As Satan had overcome Adam and Eve by a tree, so the Seed of the woman would defeat the Serpent on the tree of the cross.
In a sense, the rest of the Old Testament is a commentary on Genesis 3:15 and the entire New Testament is culmination and declaration of the Promise.
12. Note more results of first sin that we read here.
13. Where in these verses do you see evidence that the Gospel promise in verses 14 and 15 worked faith in Adam’s heart?
14. Consider Luther’s comments regarding the Promise received by faith in Adam and Eve: “Satan understood this threat well; therefore he has continued to rage against human nature with such great hatred. Adam and Eve were encouraged by this promise. Wholeheartedly they grasped the hope of their restoration; and, full of faith, they saw that God cared about their salvation, since He clearly declares that the male Seed of the woman would prostrate this enemy.” (AE 1:193)
15. Where in these verses do you see evidence that even though Adam and Eve were forgiven, they were still sinners?
16. Note the different acts of God’s grace in verses 21-24.  

Read Genesis 4:1-16
17. What fruit of Eve’s faith do we see in verse 1?
18. Why did the Lord accept Abel’s offering and not Cain’s? See Hebrews 11:4 and 1 John 3:12.
19. How does the LORD act in grace toward Cain in verses 7 and 8? In verse 9? In verses 10-12? In verses 15 and 16?
20. Does Cain show godly repentance in verses 13 and 14? Explain your answer.

Genesis 4:17-5:32 – Evil Reigns and Death’s Bell Tolls
The remainder of chapter 4 is further evidence of sin’s damning effects in this world. Lamech commits polygamy. Lamech bursts forth in sacrilegious poetry exalting his sins of hatred, vengeance, violence and murder. The sons of Lamech are caught up in making the life on earth a comfortable and pleasurable one.
Verses 25 and 26 is a brief, yet bright, ray of light in an otherwise sad and dark history of sin’s damning and disastrous dominion. In these two verses, Moses reveals how God keeps the line of the Promise intact. Through the line of Seth, Jesus would finally be born. It was in public worship that everything God had promised was proclaimed to his people. The Promise continues to be given.
In chapter 5 we pick up the written account of Adam. Whereas Adam had been created holy and pure, Adam brought his son Seth into the world in his likeness. We saw in chapter 4 that the children of Adam and Eve were sinful. Now it is stated clearly…for all of time, children will be born in the sinful image of their parents. They will live. Then they die. The funeral bell of the patriarch’s tolls with only one exception, godly Enoch.
Even as the sad refrain, “and he died” is repeated, God’s Promise in Christ is alive as Moses records the line of the Savior.

Genesis 6:1-8:19 – The Great Flood
Notes on chapter 6:
“The sons of God” – Not angels as some have suggested. The phrase refers to the Sethite men. The sons of God, that is, the believers, no longer searched for godly young women from a Sethite family. Physical qualities and earthly beauty were the determining factors in choosing a spouse.
“120 years” – The God of free and faithful grace gives the people of the world 120 years to repent before they would be destroyed in the great flood.
“Nephilim” – Not giants as some have suggested. These men who seem to live by violence take pride in their depravity.
By faith, God credited righteousness and blamelessness to Noah (see Hebrews 11:7). The Lord led Noah to trust in the Promise made in Genesis 3:14,15.
Verses 11-22 set the stage for the great flood as God prepares Noah and his family for that event of judgment.
Notes on chapters 7 and 8:
We do not know when God revealed the distinction between clean and unclean animals.
Note that all of the animals came to Noah. This was no accident. They weren’t just scurrying toward the nearest sanctuary. The Lord took action and intervened and caused the animals to come to Noah so they could enter the ark.
On the 17th day of the second month in Noah’s 600th year the flood began. More than a year later, on the 27th day of the second month in Noah’s 601st year the earth was completely dry.
Note the ways in which Noah’s faith showed itself:
Built the ark according to God’s specifications, even though no other vessel had been built like it.
Entered the ark at God’s command.
Left the ark at God’s command.
As he disembarks the ark and sees the deadly effects of the flood, Noah proceeds to offer a sacrifice. It was a sacrifice in which the whole animal was completely offered on the altar and burned. It symbolized complete devotion and dedication to the Lord.
Genesis 8:20-9:17 – A Covenant after the Great Flood
 Notes on this section:
God made a solemn promise to Noah and in doing so God bound himself never to destroy the world in such a way as he had with the flood. He set the rainbow in the sky as a sign and seal of that promise. Today, every time we see a rainbow, we are assured that day and night, winter, spring, summer and fall, planting and harvesting will never cease until Jesus returns.

Genesis 9:18-11:26 – More Sin…More Grace
Notes on Genesis 9:18-29
Moses notes the names of Noah’s sons once more because it is from them that all people in the world will descend.
Apparently, Noah had been a farmer before the flood and now planted a vineyard. The Lord blessed his crop and from some of his grapes, Noah made God’s gift of wine. But then he abused and misused God’s good gift and became drunk.
Noah’s son Ham seemed to enjoy looking at his father’s shame and thought that his brothers would too.
Professor John Jeske, in the People’s Bible series makes some noteworthy comments regarding the curse of Canaan, the son of Ham and the blessings God would shower on the children of Shem and Japheth: “Cursed be Canaan.” Noah foresaw that the coarse sensuality, the tendency toward immorality that his son Ham had displayed, would be developed more fully in Canaan, one of Ham’s four sons. Canaan was the ancestor of that branch of Ham’s family that occupied the Promised Land before the Israelites conquered and occupied it. Wherever we meet Canaanite culture, we note that its outstanding characteristic is its moral depravity. Canaanite religion, for example, was a combination of idolatry and adultery. Temple prostitution—heterosexual and homosexual—was a Canaanite way of honoring the gods. Noah predicted that for this reason a curse would fall upon the Canaanites; they would be slaves to their brothers. History records that in subsequent centuries the Canaanites were enslaved, in turn, by their fellow Hamites, as well as by the Shemites and the Japhethites.
From that distasteful segment of prophecy, Noah burst out in a hymn of praise to the Lord, the God of Shem. The Holy Spirit had revealed to Noah that the line of Shem would be the cradle of the promised Messiah. In contrast to the bleak future ahead for the Hamites, the Shemites would become God’s chosen people. He would reveal himself to them, and they would worship Jehovah as the true God, the God of free and faithful grace. Throughout the Old Testament, we can trace the fulfillment of what Noah prophesied about the blessedness of Shem’s line, the Hebrew people.
Even though the Canaanites later became slaves of the Hebrews, this slavery became a blessing for them, for through it they came in contact with the true God (Joshua 6:25; 9:27). It should, therefore, be emphasized that Noah spoke in generalities. His prophecy does not predict the unalterable fate of every Canaanite or of every Israelite. The Bible records instances of Canaanites who were saved (1 Kings 17:24; Matthew 15:21–28), as well as Shemites who were lost (Matthew 23:13).
Noah now addressed the third of his sons. “May God extend the territory of Japheth: may Japheth live in the tents of Shem.” Noah first mentioned an earthly blessing that the descendants of Japheth would enjoy. He would have numerous descendants. Chapter 10 informs us that Japheth was the ancestor of the Indo-Europeans, who later occupied vast stretches of land in Asia and Europe and points north and west. The choicest blessings Noah foretold for the Japhethites, however, were not earthly, physical ones but the spiritual blessings they would enjoy. They would “live in the tents of Shem,” sharing in the blessed inheritance given to Shem—the truth of God as we have it in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Noah prophesied that Gentiles would share in all the blessings Christ came to bring.
Notes on Genesis 10
This chapter has been called the Table of Nations. In it, God is especially noting those nations that will play a part in the history of the Children of Israel.
These verses are not the Bible’s commentary on the differences in races. The Bible is silent on differences in race.
Of the sons of Shem, it is from Arphaxad’s descendants that the Promise would come.
Read Genesis 11:1-9
In chapter 10 we read of the origin of all of the people who would ever live. In chapter 11 we hear of the origin of the different languages people speak.
21. In what ways were the peoples of the earth committing idolatry at this time?
22. How did the Lord act in judgment?
23. How did the Lord act in grace?

Notes on Genesis 11:10-26
From now on, Moses will sharpen his focus and spotlight those people who would be in the family from whom the Promise would come.
In chapter 5 we read of 10 generations from Adam to Noah. Here in chapter eleven, God records 10 generations from Noah to Abraham. Though genealogical records might not seem to be the most fascinating and riveting reading, in it God is revealing that even as people continue to die as a result of their sins, he is at work in saving them from their death and sins by keeping the line of the Promise intact.
Miscellaneous Notes:
I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried. He descended into hell. The third day he rose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of God the Father almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead.
What does this mean?
I believe that Jesus Christ, true God, begotten of the Father from eternity, and also true man, born of the virgin Mary, is my Lord.
He has redeemed me, a lost and condemned creature, purchased and won me from all sins, from death and from the power of the devil, not with gold or silver, but with his holy, precious blood and with his innocent suffering and death.
All this he did that I should be his own, and live under him in his kingdom, and serve him in everlasting righteousness, innocence and blessedness, just as he has risen from death and lives and rules eternally.
This is most certainly true. (The Second Article, Luther’s Small Catechism)
Terms and Concepts: In this section, we note the following important terms and concepts that are revealed to us in Genesis.

Protevangel
(protevangelium)
The first Gospel promise recorded in the Bible in Genesis 3:14,15.
Original sin
The sin and guilt inherited by all people as a result of Adam’s fall into sin.
Old Adam, Old man,
sinful nature
A mind and heart that loves only evil all the time.  All people have a sinful nature as a result of being born in original sin.  Even after coming to faith, the sinful nature is retained.
Satan
Name for the devil that means “Adversary,” or, “Accuser.”
Devil	The head of the fallen angels and chief enemy of God.
Punishment
Temporal and eternal judgment we deserve because of our sins.
Chastisement
God’s loving discipline for his children.
Time of grace
The time God gives people on earth to repent of their sin and be brought to faith in Jesus.
Covenant
A solemn promise by which God promises to bless and save.
Noahic Covenant
The solemn unilateral promise God gave to Noah and his descendants that he would never again destroy all earthly life like he had with the flood.  The sign of this covenant was and is the rainbow.
Antediluvian	Term used to describe the time from the creation of the world until the flood

“A Mark on Cain”: This was a sign for Cain, not necessarily a physical mark put on him. It was for Cain’s benefit to reassure him that his life would be spared.
 “Call on the name of the Lord.”: We read this phrase at the end of Genesis 4. This was more than just praying to God.  It was more than lifting up one’s voice in praise of God. It was more than offering private acts of worship. At this dark time of rampant and repugnant sin, those who received the Promise in faith began to publicly proclaim everything that God had revealed himself. The Formula of Concord (V 23) says:
23 From the beginning of the world these two proclamations have always been taught alongside each other in God’s Church, with a proper distinction. The descendants of the well-respected patriarchs, and the patriarchs themselves, called to mind constantly how in the beginning a person had been created righteous and holy by God. They know that through the fraud of the Serpent, Adam transgressed God’s command, became a sinner, and corrupted and cast himself with all his descendants into death and eternal condemnation. They encouraged and comforted themselves again by the preaching about the woman’s seed, who would bruise the Serpent’s head (Genesis 3:15); Abraham’s seed, in whom “all the nations of the earth [will] be blessed” (Genesis 22:18)
On the heroes of faith: Read the following further revelation about those we see in this section:
Isaiah 54:9,10
Hebrews 11:1,2,4-7
Jude 14,15
Matthew 24:36-39
2 Peter 2:5
Water used for judgment and for salvation: The same water that drowned and destroyed all mankind and animals safely lifted Noah, his family and the animals aboard the ark and delivered them from God’s judgment. In the New Testament, in 1 Peter 3:20,21 and Romans 6:4, we hear that the Old Testament flood is a picture and type of New Testament baptism.
“God remembered”: In Genesis 8:1 we read that God remembered Noah. It doesn’t mean that God had forgotten about him. This is the first time we read hear this expression in the Old Testament. Other examples are: Genesis 19:29; 30:22; Exodus 2:4; 6:5; Psalm 98:3; 106:45. When this phrase is used in these examples and others, it means that God acts in his providential, saving, and merciful for the benefit of his chosen ones.
Pre-flood vegetarians?: When he created the heavens and the earth and everything in them God gave to Adam and Eve all the green plants for food (with the exception of the tree of knowledge of good and evil). In Genesis 9:3, the Lord gives Noah and his family permission to eat meat drained of its lifeblood. Does this mean that from the time of Adam until after the flood people were vegetarians? This might seem to be the case but the Bible stops short of saying so. In fact, Genesis 3:21 and 4:2-4 even seem to argue against such a conclusion.

Summary and Review:

Genesis 3:1-13	The Fall into Sin
Genesis 3:14-24	The Promise of a Savior
Genesis 4:1-16	The First Murder
Genesis 4:17-5:32	Evil Reigns and Death’s Bell Tolls
Genesis 6:1-8:19	The Great Flood
Genesis 8:20-9:17	A Covenant after the Great Flood
Genesis 9:18-11:26	More Sin…More Grace
Prepare for Next Time: Please read the following references that are in bold print. If you have time, read all of them.
Genesis 11:27-12:20	The Call of Abram
Genesis 13,14	Abram and Lot
Genesis 15,17	God’s Covenant with Abram
Genesis 16	Abram and Sarai Have a Son…Ishmael
Genesis 18:1-15	The Promise of an Heir
Genesis 18:16-19:38	Sodom and Gomorrah
Genesis 20	Abraham and Abimelech
Genesis 21-23	Isaac, the Heir, Is Born
Genesis 22:1-19	The Lord Provides
Genesis 24	A Wife for Isaac
Genesis 25:1-11	Abraham Dies
Genesis 25:12-18	The Account of Ishmael
Genesis 25:19-34	Jacob and Esau
Genesis 26	Isaac and Abimelech
Genesis 27-30	Jacob Deceives…The Deceiver Chastised
Genesis 31-35	Jacob Returns
Genesis 37-41	Joseph’s Trials and “Successes”
Genesis 42-45	Joseph’s Brothers Tested and Tried
Genesis 46-50	Israel in Egypt
Closing: CW 378, All Mankind Fell In Adam's Fall
All mankind fell in Adam's fall;
One common sin infects us all.
From one to all the curse descends,
And over all God's wrath impends.
Through all our pow'rs corruption creeps
And us in dreadful bondage keeps;
In guilt we draw our infant breath
And reap its fruits of woe and death.
From hearts depraved, to evil prone,
Flow thoughts and deeds of sin alone;
God's image lost, the darkened soul
Nor seeks nor finds its heav'nly goal.
But Christ, the second Adam, came
To bear our sin and woe and shame,
To be our life, our light, our way,
Our only hope, our only stay.
As by one man all mankind fell
And, born in sin, was doomed to hell,
So by one Man, who took our place,
We all were justified by grace.
We thank you, Christ; new life is ours,
New light, new hope, new strength, new pow'rs;
This grace our ev'ry way attend
Until we reach our journey's end.

Text, Tune, Setting: public domain.
