---
weight: 4
slug: Old-Testament-overview-Engel-4
title:  第四课(Lesson4)神籍以色列先祖启示的应许
author: Pastor Engel
kecheng: Old Testament Overview-En
---

第四课(Lesson＃4)神籍以色列先祖启示的应许
The Promise Revealed to and through the Patriarchs
Opening Prayer: Let The Earth Now Praise The Lord, CW 28
Let the earth now praise the Lord,
Who has truly kept his word
And at last to us did send
Christ, the sinner's help and friend.
What the fathers most desired,
What the prophets' heart inspired,
What they longed for many a year
Stands fulfilled in glory here.
Abram's promised great reward,
Zion's helper, Jacob's Lord --
Him of twofold race behold --
Truly came, as long foretold.
Welcome, O my Savior, now!
Joyful, Lord, to you I bow.
Come into my heart, I pray;
Oh, prepare yourself a way.
Crush for me the serpent's head
That, set free from doubt and dread,
I may cling to you in faith,
Safely kept through life and death,
And, when you shall come again
As a glorious king to reign,
I with joy may see your face,
Freely ransomed by your grace.
Text: public domain.
Introduction: Genesis 11:10-26 gives the record of Shem. In this short section of Moses’ record, God is still revealing his law and gospel. He is still making plain our desperate, dreadful and damning condition (all of these men die). He is still making known what he would do to fulfill the Promise he made to Adam and Eve. God reveals the line of the promise from Shem to Abram in this ten-name genealogy. What follows in the rest of the book of Genesis is God’s revelation of how he repeated and sustained his promises to and through the patriarchs.
Genesis 11:27-12:20 – The Call of Abram
Read Genesis 11:27-12:7
1. The Promise is narrowed down to one man, Abram, the son of Terah of Shem’s line. The Lord called Abram out of idolatry, to leave his idolatrous homeland and travel first to Haran and then to Canaan. Abram is 75 years old and is married to his half-sister, Sarai. At this time the couple is childless.
2. How does the Lord’s choice of Abram to be the one through whom the Promise would come and the Lord’s call to leave Ur demonstrate that we are saved completely by his grace?
3. Note the many sides of the blessing God gives to Abram.
4. In his comments on Genesis 12:4, Luther writes, “Faith and promise belong together naturally and inseparably.” Where do we see this is true in the account of Abram?
5. Consider Hebrews 11:8-10 in light of this section of Genesis.
Genesis 12:8-20
Because of a famine, Abram and his family had to leave his new homeland and travel to Egypt. Here we note that Scripture is not slow to reveal the sins of the saints. Foolish fear for his life forced Abram to lie and say that his beautiful wife Sarai was his sister. The Lord then inflicted serious disease on Pharaoh’s royal court. Abram and family were sent back to Canaan.
Genesis 13,14 – Abram and Lot
Both Abram and Lot had many livestock, so many that the land for grazing the flocks became scarce. Abram allowed his nephew to have first choice of the land.
Read Genesis 13:14-18
After Lot had moved into the part of the land that was soon to bring much trouble into his life, the Lord repeated his promises to Abram.
The first part of chapter 14 relates some of the trouble in Lot’s life. Four Mesopotamian kings went into battle against the people of Sodom and Gomorrah. These foreign powers carried off the material wealth of the region as well as Lot and his family and possessions. Along with 318 men, Abram pursued the army of the four kings and overtook them and rescued Lot. On the way home after the rescue, Abram stopped near Salem (later Jerusalem) and gave a tenth of what he had seized to Melchizedek (see Hebrews 6:20-7:19).
Genesis 15 and 17 – God’s Covenant with Abram
Read Genesis 15:1-6
6. Summarize the exchange between the Lord and Abram in the first five verses of this chapter.
7. How did the Lord respond to Abram’s doubts?
8. What did God credit as righteousness to Abraham?
9. Consider the following expositions on verse 6:
Luther: “Here, in the most appropriate place, the Holy Spirit wanted to set forth expressly and clearly the statement that righteousness is nothing else than believing God when He makes a promise.”
Formula of Concord, SD III 33: “At this point St. Paul’s statement concerning Abraham is apposite. He says that Abraham was justified before God through faith alone for the sake of the Mediator without the addition of his own works, not only when he was first converted from idolatry and had no good works, but also afterward when the Holy Spirit had renewed and adorned him with many resplendent good works (Rom. 4:3; Gen. 15:6; Heb. 11:8).”
Genesis 15:7-21
The Lord made a solemn covenant with Abram. This one-sided covenant assured Abram of God’s promises to him. He would have a son as promised! He would gain possession of the land promised to him! The Lord even allowed Abram to receive knowledge of what would happen to his descendants in Egypt. They would return to the Promised Land and would serve as God’s instruments in bringing the Lord’s judgment on the heathen peoples living in the Promised Land.
Genesis 16
Though the Lord had revealed his promises to Abram and repeated and reaffirmed them, Sarai was struggling because she still had not had a child. She tried to take matters into her own hands and gave her servant Hagar to Abram as a surrogate mother. But the Promise was not to be handed down through Hagar, nor Ishmael, the son she bore. Because Sarai grew resentful of Hagar, she mistreated her and finally sent her away into the desert. The angel of the Lord (Jesus before he took on human flesh…we will speak more of this later) spoke to her and told her to go back to Sarai. Hagar returned and gave birth to Ishmael. Abraham was 86 years old when Ishamael was born.
Read Genesis 17:1-8
10. Abram =
11. Abraham =
12. How did the name change reinforce God’s promise to Abram?
Genesis 17:9-27
God gave circumcision as a seal of the promises he made to Abraham. So at 99 years old, Abraham was circumcised, along with all males in his household. From that time until the time of Christ, all descendants of Abraham would bear on their bodies a physical reminder of the Lord’s plan and promise of salvation.
God gave another seal and reminder of his promises to Abraham when he changed Sarai’s name to Sarah (“princess”). At this time, the Lord also revealed to Abraham and Sarah that the name of the son who would be born to them would be named Isaac.
Read Genesis 18:1-15 – The Promise of an Heir
13. The three visitors are the Lord himself and two angels.
14. What was one of the purposes of their visit?
15. How did Sarah react to the promise that in a year, she would bear a son? Why do you think she did this?
Genesis 18:16-19:38 – Sodom and Gomorrah
Genesis 18:16-33 – Abraham prays for the believers of Sodom
The Lord revealed that he was about to destroy the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Abraham pleaded with the Lord that he spare the cities on account of any righteous people living there. The Lord answered Abraham’s pleas and agreed to spare the cities if ten righteous people were found living there.
Genesis 19:1-29 – The Lord’s judgment on Sodom and Gomorrah
The two angels could not find ten righteous people. The Lord brought his judgment down on the cities. Lot, his wife and daughters were brought safely out of the city with the help of the two angels. Lot’s wife disobeyed the order not to look back and was turned into a pillar of salt.
Genesis 19:30-38 – Lot and his daughters
In this unsavory and ugly postscript to the account of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, we see how Lot and his daughters had been corrupted by the wickedness of their former residence. Lot fell into the sins of drunkenness and incest not once but twice. Lot’s daughters shamelessly gave names to their sons that would memorialize these sins. The two sons that were born of Lot’s daughters would be the fathers of two nations, the Moabites and Ammonites. These two nations would be a scourge to the people of the Promise and lead them into idolatrous practices. Following this sordid account, we hear nothing more of Lot.
Genesis 20 – Abraham and Abimelech
This account is similar to what we heard in chapter 12. Another famine forced Abraham to move, this time among the Philistines. There he again passed Sarah off as his sister.
Genesis 21-23 – Isaac, the Heir, Is Born
Read Genesis 21:1-7 – Isaac is born
16. Abraham is now 100 years old and Sarah is 90.
17. Consider verses 1 and 2. What did the Lord do in order to keep his promises?
18. According to verse 3, what did Abraham do to show he recognized that God was keeping his promises?
19. What is the significance of the name “Isaac?”
20. According to verse 4, what did Abraham do to show he recognized that God was keeping his promises?
Genesis 21:8-21 – Hagar and Ishmael
On what to was have been a day of joy and celebration, envy arose and Sarah told Abraham to get rid of Hagar and Ishmael.
The Lord reassured Abraham that he would indeed bless both sons, but only Isaac would be the one through whom the Promise would come. (see Galatians 4:21-31) Though realizing he would probably never see his firstborn son again, Abraham sent Hagar and Ishmael away with provisions. The account of Ishmael is recorded in Genesis 25.
Genesis 21:22-34 – A treaty
Read Genesis 22:1-19 – The Lord Provides
21. Moriah – near where Jerusalem would be built and the place where Jesus would be sacrificed.
22. In verse 1 we read that God tested Abraham. For whose benefit was this?
23. How did Abraham live by faith and not by sight in verse 5? Look up Hebrews 11:17-19.
24. How did Abraham live by faith and not by sight in verse 8?
25. How did Abraham live by faith and not by sight in verses 9-11?
26. What does this account teach us when one of God’s commands seems to be in conflict with one of his promises?
27. Note in verses 20-24 we hear how God had been at work throughout the generations of the lives of Abraham’s relatives in order to bring a wife for Isaac into this world.
Genesis 23 – The death of Sarah
Sarah died at the age of 127 (she is the only woman in the Bible whose age at the time of death is given). She lived to be able to see her son Isaac grow to be 37. Abraham made sure that his wife was buried in the Promised Land by purchasing a burial place, the cave of Machpelah. 38 years later Abraham would be laid to rest there as well. Later chapters in Genesis reveal that Isaac, Rebekah, Jacob and Leah were also buried at this place.
Genesis 24 – A Wife for Isaac
Read Genesis 24:1-9
28. Abraham is now 140 years old. His wife had died 3 years prior to this account.
29. Why didn’t Abraham want Isaac to marry a Canaanite woman?
Genesis 24:10-60
Genesis 24:10-31 – The record of the servant’s search
Genesis 24:32-49 – The servant retells the search
Genesis 24:50-60 – Preparations to leave
Read Genesis 24:61-67
30. How did Isaac act in faith in line with God’s covenant promise?
Genesis 25:1-11 – The Death of Abraham
Abraham was permitted by the Lord to see his twin grandsons, Jacob and Esau, live to be fifteen years old. Abraham’s son, Isaac, was 75 years old when his father died. The Lord called Abraham’s soul to himself in heaven when Abraham was 175 years old. His earthly remains were laid to rest with his wife in the cave of Machpelah.
Genesis 25:12-18 – The Account of Ishmael
This is the 7th of 10 such accounts in the book of Genesis. It is a short account, consisting mostly of names with which we are not familiar. It is brief because the Promise would come through Isaac.
Read Genesis 25:19-34 – Jacob and Esau
31. Isaac and Rebekah were married 20 years before the twin boys, Esau and Jacob were born.
32. What promise did God make to Rebekah?
33. See Romans 9:10-13 to see how Paul uses this account to reveal to us that God’s election of his believers is by grace.
34. What does Jacob mean? See Genesis 27:36.
35. How did Esau value the promise God had made to his grandfather Abraham? (See Hebrews 12:16,17)
36. How did Jacob show a lack of trust that God would keep the promise he had made before Jacob was born?
Genesis 26 – Isaac and Abimelech
A severe famine forced Isaac and family to the land of the Philistines. In the face of fear and uncertainty, the Lord repeated his promises. Isaac fell into the same sin his grandfather Abraham had fallen. He doubted the word of the Lord’s promise and said that his wife was his sister.
Genesis 27-30 – Jacob Deceives…the Deceiver Chastised
Genesis 27:1-40 – The deception
Isaac asked his son Esau to go hunting and then prepare a meal for him so that following the meal, he could give Esau his blessing. Rebekah overheard the plan and began to formulate a scheme for Jacob to get the blessing. Jacob, the “heel-grabber” agreed with the scheme, brought two goats to his mother and dressed himself in Esau’s clothes at his mother’s urging. So complete was the deceitful scheme that Jacob’s hands and neck were covered in goatskin. At the heart of this deception was a sinful lack of trust that God would make good on his promise that had been made while both Esau and Jacob were still in Rebekah’s womb. So Rebekah and Jacob took advantage of Isaac’s failing sight and in a web of lies tricked Isaac in order to obtain the blessing that God said was already his.
Genesis 27:41-28:22 – Jacob flees to Paddam Aram
Genesis 27:41-28:9
Because of Jacob’s deceitful words and actions, Esau held a grudge against his brother. He began plotting on how he would kill Jacob after his father had died. Again, Rebekah uncovered the plot and sent Jacob to her brother Laban in her homeland of Haran. She cloaked her plan in piety when she told her husband Isaac that she couldn’t live with the thought of Jacob marrying a Canaanite woman.
Fleeing a brother bent on murdering him and leaving his homeland Jacob left and traveled toward Paddam Aram. The “heel-grabber” was in desperate need of the comfort of God’s promises.
Read Genesis 28:10-22
37. Describe what Jacob saw in his dream.
38. What was the Lord revealing to Jacob in verses 13-15?
Genesis 29:1-14 – Jacob arrives in Paddam Aram
After arriving safely in Paddam Aram, Jacob meets Rachel, Laban’s youngest daughter. The “heel-grabber” is entering a period of trials in his life. For a time, the “deceiver” would be the one being deceived. Yet in all of this, the Lord was working to bring into this world the son of Jacob through whom God would keep his Promise.
Genesis 29:14-30 – Jacob marries
Jacob agreed to work for Laban for seven years for Laban’s daughter Rachel. Laban deceived his nephew and gave Jacob his oldest daughter, Leah, instead. Laban’s nature is shown in how he offers a second bride for Jacob, his youngest daughter, Rachel, in exchange for seven more years of work.
Genesis 29:31-30:24 – Jacob’s children
Rachel held her husband’s affection, but like Jacob’s grandmother and mother, she was barren. Jacob’s love for Rachel brought bitterness into the marriages. So great was the animosity between the sisters that they gave their servants to Jacob to serve as surrogate mothers. Finally, the Lord blessed Rachel with a son, Joseph. All told, Jacob had 12 sons and one daughter.
Genesis 30:25-43 – Trials and blessings
In this section we see Laban’s deceitful and selfish nature. In spite of Laban’s attempts to take advantage of Jacob, the Lord blessed Jacob with many material possessions. In the 20 years that Jacob worked for Laban, Laban changed Jacob’s wages ten times.
Genesis 31-35 – Jacob Returns to Canaan
Genesis 31 – Leaving Paddam Aram
At the age of 97, Jacob followed the Lord’s instruction to return to his homeland. With the promise of the Lord’s presence and protection ringing in his ears, he and his family left Paddan Aram. His father-in-law Laban pursued Jacob’s caravan for a week and finally caught up to him. After being delivered from this threat Jacob continued, only to face a new and seemingly greater danger.
Genesis 32:1-21 – Preparing to meet brother Esau
After sending messengers to his brother Esau, Jacob learned that Esau was on his way to meet him. Esau was traveling toward Jacob’s group with 400 men. In great fear and distress, Jacob prepared to meet his brother Esau.
Read Genesis 32:22-32 – Jacob wrestles with God
39. What happened during the night?
40. With whom did Jacob wrestle?
41. What is the significance of Jacob’s name change?
Genesis 33 – Jacob meets brother Esau
The Lord turned Jacob’s fear and distress into joy as the twins are reconciled. Esau forgave his brother Jacob. Jacob settled in his homeland.
Genesis 34,35 – Trial upon trial
After being delivered from his father-in-law and after being reconciled with his brother Esau, Jacob would now live out the rest of his days undergoing trial after trial, first in his homeland and then in the land in which he would die, Egypt.
Soon after returning to Canaan, Jacob’s daughter Dinah was raped. The second and third sons of Jacob took revenge on the offending family and brought disgrace on their father.
After many years of faithful service, Deborah, his mother Rebekah’s nurse died.
Rachel became pregnant a second time. What would normally be a joyful occasion turned into another painful trial for Jacob when Rachel died giving birth to Benjamin.
Another painful event occurred when Jacob’s oldest son Reuben slept with Bilhah, Rachel’s maidservant.
At the age of 180, Jacob’s father Isaac died and was buried.
Genesis 36 – The Account of Esau
This is the second to last “account” in the book of Genesis. In it we have the record of the descendants of Esau.
Genesis 37-41 – Joseph’s Trials and “Successes”
Genesis 37:1-11 – Joseph’s dreams
Abraham’s great-grandson and Jacob’s favorite son Joseph pridefully related to his family two dreams that he had that his family would bow down to him.
Read Genesis 37:12-36 – Joseph sold into slavery
42. Describe what the brothers did to Joseph.
43. Describe what the sons did to their father Jacob.
44. How is the Lord working through this sad account?
Genesis 38 – Judah and Tamar
Chapter 38 is another sad account in the life of Jacob. His fourth son, Judah, married a Canaanite wife. His sons were so wicked in God’s eyes that the Lord put them to death. Judah then had sex with his daughter-in-law, Tamar, whom he thought was a temple prostitute.
Genesis 39 – Joseph and Potiphar’s wife
In Egypt, the Lord was equipping and training Joseph to serve his purposes in salvation history. At first Joseph prospered in Egypt. He was a godly and faithful servant to Potiphar. Potiphar’s wife wanted to have sex with Joseph. When Joseph refused on the grounds that it would be a sin against God, Potiphar’s wife lied and Joseph was put into prison.
Genesis 40 – Interpreting dreams
Joseph’s training continued in prison. After earning the trust of the jailor, he interpreted the dreams of the baker and the cupbearer. He hoped that this would result in his release from prison but the Lord would have him wait another two years.
Genesis 41:1-40 – Interpreting Pharaoh’s dreams
Two years after Joseph had interpreted the dreams of the chief cupbearer, Pharaoh had two dreams. The first was that seven skinny cows swallowed up seven fat cows. The second dream was of two sets of seven heads of grain. In this dream the seven sickly heads of grain swallowed up the seven healthy heads. Pharaoh called in all his wise men but no one was able to find the interpretation of the dream. Finally, the chief cupbearer remembered that two years earlier, Joseph had correctly interpreted his dream. After acknowledging that only the Lord could interpret dreams, Joseph revealed to Pharaoh what his dreams meant. There were going to be seven years of abundant harvests followed by seven years of dreadful famine.    Joseph was put in charge of buying, storing and distributing food.
Read Genesis 41:41-57 – Joseph “in charge”
45. How did the Lord use Joseph during this time?
46. How did the Lord bless Joseph during this time?
47. How does verse 57 reveal the Lord at work in salvation history?
Genesis 42-45 – Joseph’s Brothers Tested and Tried
Genesis 42 – The first journey to Egypt
Word that Egypt had food available reached Jacob and his family in Canaan. Jacob sent all of his sons except Benjamin to Egypt in order to buy food. When they arrived in Egypt, they found themselves face to face with the brother they once sold into slavery. Now the dream Joseph had had was fulfilled. His brothers bowed before him. Though he recognized them, Joseph hid such recognition from his brothers. The Lord would use Joseph to bring about a godly repentance in the hearts of his brothers. First, Joseph accused his brothers of being spies who had come to Egypt under the guise of needing food. After putting them into custody for three days, Joseph held Simeon hostage and sent the brothers back to Egypt warning them that if they did not bring their youngest brother, he would not sell them any more grain. The brothers were sent on their way back to Canaan, not know that Joseph had ordered that the silver which was to be used to pay for the grain had been put into their sacks of grain. When they returned to Canaan, they told their father all that had happened. Jacob undergoes yet another trial with the revelation that Simeon remained in custody in Egypt and the official who was in charge of the sale and distribution of grain had insisted that Benjamin return with them.
Genesis 43,44 – The second journey to Egypt
All too quickly, the supply of grain the brothers had brought back from Egypt ran out. Judah offered his own life in place of Benjamin’s. Finally, Jacob agreed to send Benjamin along with his 9 brothers back to Egypt. They took with them lavish gifts and in this way, Joseph’s dream was again fulfilled as his father now paid homage to him. After hurriedly traveling to Egypt, the brothers again presented themselves to Joseph. Along with the gifts from Jacob, they also brought back twice the amount of silver that had been placed into their bags on the first trip.
The brothers were prepared for the worst, but instead of punishment, they received the opposite. After presenting the gifts to Joseph, the dream of young Joseph was fulfilled once more as the brothers all bowed down before him. Joseph questioned the brothers about their father. After laying his eyes on his brother Benjamin, Joseph’s emotions overtook him and he had to flee from the room.
A magnificent banquet was given. The brothers were seated in the order of their birth, much to the bewilderment of the brothers. As the food was served to the brothers, Benjamin received five times more than every one else. Joseph was testing his brothers to see if there would be any hint of the envy that had caused them to sell Joseph into slavery.
Joseph then gave orders to put the silver back into the sacks of grain. He further ordered that his very own silver cup be placed into Benjamin’s sack of grain. After the brothers were sent on their way back to Canaan, Joseph sent one of his servants to catch the brothers and accuse them of stealing Joseph’s cup. The money and the cup were found. After returning to Joseph, the brothers once again fulfilled the dream of their brother Joseph as they threw themselves to the ground before him. Joseph heard his brothers confess that they were only receiving what was due them for selling Joseph into slavery. Judah stepped forward and offered his life for the life of Benjamin.
Genesis 45 – Joseph reveals himself to his brothers
Finally, Joseph couldn’t wait any longer. After dismissing the servants, he told his brothers who he was. As Joseph spoke to his brothers, he revealed his trust in the Lord that the Lord had sent him there in order to save lives. Joseph then promised to take care of his family in Egypt and instructed his brothers to return to Canaan and tell their father Jacob that Joseph was alive and well and that he and all of his family were to move to Egypt.
Genesis 46-50 – Israel in Egypt
Read Genesis 46:1-8, 26-47:12 – From Canaan to Egypt
48. Jacob is now 130 years old.
49. What special assurance did the Lord give Jacob in Beersheba?
50. What blessings did the Lord bring to Jacob and his family in Egypt?
Genesis 47:13-26 – Joseph “in charge” during the famine
The Lord continued to use Joseph to take charge in Egypt during the remaining years of the famine. Through Joseph, the Lord increased the Pharaoh’s possessions and power.
Genesis 47:27-48:22 – Jacob’s last days
Jacob was blessed to be able to live for 17 years after being reunited with his son Joseph. When he realized his time on the earth was ending, Jacob had Joseph take an oath that he would be buried in the Promised Land. Jacob adopted Joseph’s sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, as his very own.
Genesis 49:1-28 – Jacob blesses his sons
The Lord gave Jacob prophetic insight as he blessed his sons. The words spoken by Jacob would be fulfilled when Jacob’s sons became the twelve tribes in Israel. We note especially the blessing given to Judah in verses 8-12. Judah would be praised (this is a wordplay on Judah’s name) because of the wonderful things God would do through Judah’s descendants. Jesus Christ, Judah’s greatest descendant would come and establish an everlasting kingdom.
Genesis 49:29-50:14 – Jacob dies and is buried
Jacob repeated what he had made Joseph promise about his burial. With that, he took his last earthly breath and died. Jacob’s body was embalmed and was taken back to the Promised Land to be buried in the same grave as his father, mother and Leah, his wife. And so ended the earthly pilgrimage of Jacob, the “heel-grabber,” the man who once thought his cleverness could help the Lord carry out his great plan. Through the Lord’s patient training and tough love, Jacob was transformed into Israel, “the man who struggled with God and overcame.” Following the burial, Joseph and the brothers returned to Egypt.
Read Genesis 50:15-21 – Joseph reassures his brothers
51. 39 years had passed since the brothers sold Joseph into slavery. Why were they still worried about Joseph taking revenge?
52. How did Joseph respond to the brothers’ plea for forgiveness?
53. How did Joseph view everything that had happened to him in the last 39 years?
Read Genesis 50:22-26 – Joseph dies and is buried
With the death of Joseph, the book of Genesis comes to an end. The beginning history of God’s saving activity in the original world and among the patriarchs has been recorded and revealed. We are now prepared to move on to the next step of salvation history: God delivers his chosen people and brings them into the Promised Land.
Miscellaneous Notes:
I believe in the Holy Spirit, the holy Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. Amen.
What does this mean?
I believe that I cannot by my own thinking or choosing believe in Jesus Christ, my Lord, or come to him.
But the Holy Spirit has called me by the gospel, enlightened me with his gifts, sanctified and kept me in the true faith. In the same way he calls, gathers, enlightens, and sanctifies the whole Christian Church on earth, and keeps it with Jesus Christ in the one true faith.
In this Christian Church he daily and fully forgives all sins to me and all believers. On the Last Day he will raise me and all the dead, and give eternal life to me and all believers in Christ. This is most certainly true. (The Third Article, Luther’s Small Catechism)
Righteousness by Faith: In Genesis 15:6 we read, “Abram believe the Lord, and he credited it to him as righteousness.”Abram gained this right standing with God not by what he had done but rather by what his great descendant Jesus would do. By faith, God credits (or imputes) Jesus’ holiness or righteousness to us. See also Romans 4 and Galatians 3:1-14 as well as John 8:56. God saves sinners by declaring them righteous and holy by faith, not by turning them into holy people. This righteousness by faith is the one way of salvation of all time. In this, anything mankind might do to contribute to salvation is ruled out. This righteousness of God comes to all who believe. By grace! By faith! Through Christ!
“Angel of the Lord”: The first appearance of the Angel of the Lord occurs in Genesis 16. Other appearances are found in Genesis 21, 22 and Exodus 3. In these references, the Angel is none other than the Second Person of the Trinity before he took on human flesh in the womb of the Virgin Mary.
Substitution: On Mt. Moriah, God used a principle that will become more prominent on the pages of Holy Scripture. God provided a ram as a substitute sacrifice for Isaac. Later we will see the same principle of substitution in the bloody sacrifices of the ceremonial law. Jesus, as the Lamb of God and the perfect Lamb of sacrifice is our Substitute. Consider the following hymn (Christian Worship Supplement, 714) that poetically relates the principle of substitution.
1 The Lamb, the Lamb, O Father, where’s the sacrifice?
Faith sees, believes God will provide the Lamb of price!
Refrain
Worthy is the Lamb whose death makes me his own!
The Lamb is reigning on his throne.
2 The Lamb, the Lamb, One perfect final offering.
The Lamb, the Lamb, Let earth join heav’n his praise to sing.
Refrain
3 The Lamb, the Lamb, As wayward sheep their shepherd kill
So still, his will, On our behalf the law to fill.
Refrain
4 He sighs, he dies, He takes my sin and wretchedness.
He lives, forgives, He gives me his own righteousness.
Refrain
5 He rose, he rose, My heart with thanks now overflows.
His song prolong ’Til ev’ry heart to him belong.
Refrain
As the Lord provided for Abraham a sacrifice in place of his son Isaac, so also he lovingly provides for us his own Son, Jesus, the perfect Lamb of God sacrificed for the sins of the world.
Text: Gerald P. Coleman, b. 1953 © 1987 Birnamwood Publications (ASACP), a division of MorningStar Music Publishers, Inc. All rights reserved. Used by permission.
“Fear God”: After the Lord stopped Abraham from sacrificing his son Isaac, he said to Abraham, “Now I know that you fear God” (Genesis 22:12). Throughout the Bible, the “fear of God” is a deep honor, reverence and respect toward the true God.  The same thought is used in Luther’s explanation to the 10 Commandments, i.e. “We should fear and love God…”
A Chronology of Jacob’s Life:
Joseph introduced to Pharaoh when he was 30 years old – Genesis 41:46
Joseph 39 years old when Jacob went into Egypt – Genesis 45:6 (seven years of plenty and two years of famine had passed)
Jacob 130 years old when he went into Egypt – Genesis 47:9
Joseph had to have been born when Jacob was 91 (130 – 39)
Joseph’s birth took place in the 14th year of Jacob’s sojourn in Mesopotamia (Genesis 30:25; Genesis 29:18,21,27)
Jacob’s flight to Uncle Laban’s occurred when he was 77 years old (91 – 14) and Issac was 137. So then Jacob was 97 when he left Paddan Aram (Genesis 31:38).
The Sons (and Daughter) of Jacob
Leah
Zilpah
(Leah’s Maidservant)
Rachel
Bilhah
(Rachel’s Maidservant)
Reuben (1)
Gad (7)
Joseph (11)
Dan (5)
Simeon (2)
Asher (8)
Benjamin (12)
Naphtali (6)
Levi (3)
Judah (4)
Issachar (9)
Zebulun (10)
Dinah
People: Below are listed some of the important people in this section. For your own understanding, briefly record why each is important.
Terah	 
 Nahor	 
 Haran	 
 Abram	 
Sarai	 
Abraham	 
Sarah	 
Lot	 
Melchizedek	 
Hagar	                                                                                              
Ishmael	 
Isaac	 
Rebekah	 
Bethuel	 
Laban	 
Jacob	 
Esau	 
Leah	 
Rachel	 
Bilhah	 
Zilpah	 
Reuben	 
Simeon	 
Judah	 
Joseph	 
Benjamin	 
Dinah	 
Places: Below are listed some of the important places in this section. For your own understanding, briefly record why each is important. For some places, more than one important event may have occurred there.
Ur of the Chaldeans	 
Haran	       
Canaan	 
Shechem	                                                                                                                                                           
Bethel	 
Egypt	 
Negev	 
Sodom	 
Gomorrah	 
Beersheba	 
Mt. Moriah	 
Cave of Machpelah	 
Hebron	 
Paddan Aram	 
Mahanaim	 
Edom	 
Peniel	 
Goshen	 
Summary and Review:
Genesis 11:27-12:20	 The Call of Abram
Genesis 13,14	Abram and Lot
Genesis 15	God’s Covenant with Abram
Genesis 16	Abram and Sarai Have a Son…Ishmael
Genesis 17	God’s Covenant with Abram
Genesis 18:1-15	The Promise of an Heir
Genesis 18:16-19:38	Sodom and Gomorrah
Genesis 20	Abraham and Abimelech
Genesis 21-23	Isaac, the Heir, Is Born
Genesis 22:1-19	The Lord Provides
Genesis 24	A Wife for Isaac
Genesis 25:1-11	The Death of Abraham
Genesis 25:12-18	The Account of Ishmael
Genesis 25:19-34	 Jacob and Esau
Genesis 26	Isaac and Abimelech
Genesis 27-30	Jacob Deceives…The Deceiver Chastised
Genesis 31-35
Genesis 36	The Account of Esau
Genesis 37-41	Joseph’s Trials and “Successes”
Genesis 42-45	Joseph’s Brothers Tested and Tried
Genesis 46-50	Israel in Egypt
Prepare for Next Time: Please read the following references that are in bold print. If you have time, read all of them.
Exodus 1-4	Moses’ Birth through Moses’ Call
Exodus 5-11	Oppression and the Plagues
Exodus 12-15:22	The Passover and the Exodus
Exodus 15:22-18:27	Through the Wilderness to Mr. Sinai
Exodus 19-24	The Establishment of the Covenant with Israel
Exodus 32-34	The Covenant Broken…Intercession…Renewal
Exodus 35-40	Construction of the Tabernacle
Exodus 40	Erecting the Tabernacle and the Glory of the Lord
Closing: The Gospel Shows The Father's Grace, CW 288
The gospel shows the Father's grace,
Who sent his Son to save our race,
Proclaims how Jesus lived and died
That we might thus be justified.
It sets the Lamb before our eyes,
Who made the atoning sacrifice
And calls the souls with guilt oppressed
To come and find eternal rest.
It brings the Savior's righteousness
To robe our souls in royal dress;
From all our guilt it brings release
And gives the troubled conscience peace.
It is the pow'r of God to save
From sin and Satan and the grave;
It works the faith which firmly clings
To all the treasures which it brings.
It bears to all the tidings glad
And bids their hearts no more be sad;
The weary, burdened souls it cheers
And banishes their guilty fears.
May we in faith its message learn
Nor thanklessly its blessings spurn;
May we in faith its truth confess
And praise the Lord, our righteousness.
最后更新于 2012年12月18日 星期二 13:23
MeasureMeasure
Get a free Evernote account to save this article and view it later on any device.
Create account
