---
weight: 5
slug: Old-Testament-overview-Engel-5
title:  第五课(Lesson5)蒙应许的儿女得救赎和自由
author: Pastor Engel
kecheng: Old Testament Overview-En
---

第五课(Lesson＃5)蒙应许的儿女得救赎和自由
                                                            The Children of the Promise Are Redeemed And Freed
Opening Prayer: CWS 720:5-8, Christ Jesus Lay In Death’s Strong Bands
5 Here the true Paschal Lamb we see, Whom God so freely gave us;
He died on the accursed tree—So strong his love—to save us.
See, his blood now marks our door; Faith points to it; death passes o’er,
And Satan cannot harm us. Alleluia! Alleluia!
6 So let us keep the festival To which the Lord invites us;
Christ is himself the joy of all, The sun that warms and lights us.
Now his grace to us imparts Eternal sunshine to our hearts;
The night of sin is ended. Alleluia! Alleluia!
7 Then let us feast this Easter Day On Christ, the bread of heaven;
The Word of grace has purged away The old and evil leaven.
Christ alone our souls will feed; He is our meat and drink indeed;
Faith lives upon no other! Alleluia! Alleluia!
Text: Martin Luther, 1483–1546; tr. Richard Massie, 1800–1887, alt.
Introduction:“These are the names of the sons of Israel…” With these words Moses begins his record of the way the Lord continued to be faithful to the Promise first made to Adam and Eve, the Promise that was repeated to and through the patriarchs. In beginning the sacred record in this way, Moses draws us back to Genesis 46:8 where he uses the same six words (in Hebrew). The Holy Spirit’s purpose through Moses’ record is clear. The last five chapters of Genesis record for us how Jacob and his family moved from Canaan to Egypt. Genesis closes as the coffin is shut on Joseph’s lifeless body, fifty four years after he had buried his father Israel in the cave of Machpelah. As he begins to reveal how the Lord would be true to his Promise in freeing the people from Egypt and giving them his covenant, the Holy Spirit makes clear that these accounts in Exodus are not some isolated history or random events. No, this is the Triune God at work in the events of history and through the events of history to create a nation for himself through whom he would bring the Seed of Eve, the fulfillment of the Promise.
Exodus 1-4 – Moses’ Birth through Moses’ Call
Exodus 1[1] – Israel in Egypt
God fulfilled his repeated promise to the patriarchs in making Israel into a great nation. He blesses them in the years between the death of Joseph and the birth of Moses. The seventy that had settled in Egypt would be a nation of 600,000 men when they were delivered out of their Egyptian slavery and oppression.
As God caused the nation of Israel to increase in number, so the fear and anxiety of the Egyptians increased. In this newly established dynasty, we hear that the Israelites were subjected to bitter and harsh slavery. But the more the Israelites were oppressed, the more they prospered. The Lord was preparing them to be set free from Egypt. By means of cruel and harsh work and by an unholy and inhumane edict to murder newborn baby boys, the rod of oppression pressed down on the necks of the Israelites. Luther once commented (in a different context) that before the Lord fills us with blessing, he empties us. The Lord used this harsh and bitter slavery and injustice to help prepare his people for their redemption from Egypt. Though earthly kings oppose the plans of the Lord and the fulfillment of his Promise (e.g. Pharaoh and Herog), the One enthroned in heaven laughs at them (Psalm 2).
Exodus 2 – Moses’ Birth
From the tribe of Levi, from the family of Kohath, Moses was born. Because of the edict first given to the midwives and then to all the Egyptians, Moses’ parents hid him for three months (see Hebrews 11:23). The Lord enforced his providential care in how Moses was found by Pharaoh’s daughter and his subsequent education in all the wisdom of the Egyptians (Acts 7:22). The Lord was working in the events of history to make sure that the “one drawn out of the water” was kept safe and in turn was prepared to serve as the human instrument of a divine rescue from slavery.
When he was forty years old (Acts 7:23), Moses appointed himself as the one to help the enslaved and mistreated Israelites (Acts 7:25) and in his self-appointed position killed an Egyptian who was treating an Israelite. Yet it was not the Lord’s time to deliver his people yet. Moses fled and took refuge in the Sinai Peninsula.
While in Midian, Moses met his wife, Zipporah, the daughter of Reuel (Jethro) the priest of Midian. Moses spent forty years in Midian. At the end of his forty year time of refuge in Midian, the Lord was ready to use Moses as the one who would serve as the leader of the people in their exodus from Egypt.
Read Exodus 2:23-25 – God Plans to Rescue His People
1. Had God forgotten about the Israelites in Egypt? How can it be said that “God remembered his covenant if he had not forgotten it?
2. As you read through Scripture, it is not only enlightening, but also essential to identify and meditate on who is revealed as the subject of the sentence and what action is spoken of the subject. In this section, note well the four actions ascribed to God in regard to the plight of the Israelites:
a.
b.
c.
d.
Read Exodus 3 – Moses’ Call at the Burning Bush
3. How did the Lord reveal himself to Moses? What would this call into Moses’ mind?
4. 10 Therefore, we must constantly maintain this point: God does not want to deal with us in any other way than through the spoken Word and the Sacraments. Whatever is praised as from the Spirit—without the Word and Sacraments—is the devil himself. 11 God wanted to appear even to Moses through the burning bush and spoken Word [Exodus 3:2–15]. (Smalcald Articles, III, VIII, 10,11)
5. How did Moses react to the revelation of the One who spoke from the burning bush? What truth does this reveal?
6. Summarize what God revealed in verses 7-10.
7. What two promises did the Lord give to Moses in verse 12?
8. What objection did Moses give in verse 11? What was the Lord’s response?
9. What objection did Moses give in verse 13? What was the Lord’s response?
10. Note well how the promises of God are the answer to Moses’ doubts!
11. Throughout chapter three as well as this first section in the book of Exodus, note the prominence of the theme of God freeing and rescuing his people.
Read Exodus 4:1-17
12. What objection did Moses give in verse 1? What was the Lord’s response?
13. What objection did Moses give in verse 10? What was the Lord’s response?
14. What objection did Moses give in verse 13? What was the Lord’s response?
Exodus 14:18-31
Following the Lord’s call, Moses returned to Egypt with his wife and sons. The Lord revealed to Moses exactly what would happen in Egypt: how he would speak to Pharaoh and perform signs and wonders and how Pharaoh would be hardened in his sin. The Lord also prophesied that because Pharaoh would not release Israel, God’s firstborn son, the Lord would kill the firstborn of Pharaoh. On the way, the Lord threatened Moses with death. When Zipporah circumcised Moses’ son, Moses’ life was spared.
The Lord led Moses’ brother Aaron to meet Moses while Moses was on his trip to Egypt. Moses related to Aaron what the Lord had said to him and after the two arrived in Egypt, they revealed the Word of the Lord to the leaders of the Israelites.
Exodus 5-11 – Oppression and the Plagues
Exodus 5 – Bricks without Straw
The Lord sent Moses and Aaron to Pharaoh so that the children of Israel could go out into the wilderness to worship. Pharaoh refused and made the life of the people of Israel even harder. He ordered them to make bricks without supplying the straw and demanded that the daily output not decrease. The leaders turned on Moses and Aaron and were angry with them. In frustration and completely discouraged, Moses complained to the Lord. The Lord empties before he fills with blessing.
Exodus 6 – Promise of Deliverance; Moses’ and Aaron’s Genealogy
Read Exodus 6:1-9
15. What does it mean that God did not make himself known “by my name the LORD?”
16. How would the Israelites know that the true God was their God?
17. How did the Israelites respond when Moses proclaimed the Lord’s Word to them?
In the remainder of the chapter Moses records his family history.
Exodus 7  -- Before Pharaoh…Water to Blood
Moses (80 years old) and Aaron (83 years old) received the Lord’s instructions in regard to the plagues. The Lord revealed what he was about to do and how Pharaoh and the Egyptians would respond. The Lord even gave Pharaoh a sign that he was about to do what Moses and Aaron said. Aaron threw his staff down and it became a snake. The Egyptian wise men did the same. In a sign of the Lord’s absolute supremacy, Aaron’s staff swallowed the wise men’s snakes.
The Lord sent the first of ten plagues on the people of Egypt. The purpose of the plagues is revealed in verse 17. Through Moses and Aaron, the Lord turned the all-important Nile into blood. Fish died. The water was unusable for cooking and washing. This plague was an act of judgment because the Egyptians worshiped the waters of the Nile as sacred. The believed that a god named Osiris inhabited the waters of the great river. After the Egyptian magicians duplicated the miracle on a minuscule scale, Pharaoh’s heart was hard and rejected the Lord’s sign.
Exodus 8 – Frogs…Gnats…Flies
Seven days after the plague of blood, God sent the second plague, the plague of frogs. Again, the Egyptian magicians duplicated the miracle. This plague was a judgment of God in that the Egyptians worshiped frogs. Pharaoh asked Moses and Aaron for relief from the plague in exchange for allowing the people to go into the wilderness to worship. As soon as there was relief, he hardened his heart.
The third act of judgment of God on Egypt and the Egyptians was called forth from their sacred soil. Gnats, or tiny, nearly invisible insects came forth from the soil of the earth and caused great discomfort. Unlike the incident with Aaron’s staff and the first two plagues, the Egyptian magic men couldn’t duplicate this act of God. Pharaoh hardened his heart in response to this third plague.
We note some difference in the way God executes his judgment as we look to the fourth plague. No more would God have Aaron hit the water or the earth with his staff. The Lord would powerfully announce each subsequent plague and it would happen. Another difference is that beginning with the fourth plague, only the Egyptians were affected by the disaster. Pharaoh seemed to bend a little bit and offered to let the Israelites sacrifice in the land of Egypt…then he said they could go out of Egypt, but not too far. Moses prayed for the Lord to remove the files and the Lord answered. Again, as soon as there was relief from the dreadful plague, Pharaoh acted deceitfully and in hardening his heart changed his mind about letting the people go.
Exodus 9 – Livestock…Boils…Hail
The fifth plague struck the living animals, but only those of the Egyptians. None of the animals that belonged to the Israelites died. Even after hearing word from an investigator that all of the Israelite’s animals were alive and well, Pharaoh’s heart was hard and unyielding.
The Lord brought the sixth plague without advance warning. After Moses threw handfuls of soot into the air, boils broke out on the people and animals living in Egypt. Now it was the Lord’s time to fulfill what he had spoken in 4:21. Pharaoh earned the judgment of the Lord hardening his heart.
The seventh plague was a judgment of hail, thunder and lightning. Before sending the plague, the Lord warned Pharaoh through Moses that the intensity of the judgment was going to increase. An important truth is revealed in this section regarding the way God works in the world. He uses everything to serve himself and his glory. Even the unbelieving and unyielding most powerful man in the world is used to bring glory to God through the judgment of the plagues. Once more, the Israelites were spared so that no hail fell on them or their land. The result of the seventh plague seemed to be a God pleasing one. Pharaoh seemed to relent. However, Pharaoh was not displaying Godly sorrow and repentance. He was sorry that he was suffering, but not terrified that he had sinned against God.
Exodus 10 – Locusts and Darkness
The eighth plague the Lord sent destroyed whatever crops had been spared from the previous plague. Though the Egyptians had seen swarms of locusts before, never had they experienced anything near this act of judgment of God. After Moses had announced the eighth plague, Pharaoh seemed to bend once more and said only the men could go to the wilderness to sacrifice. He was going to hold the women and children hostage to ensure that the men would return!
After the devastating swarms of locusts came, Pharaoh said, “I have sinned against the LORD your God and against you. Now forgive my sin once more and pray to the LORD your God to take this deadly plague away from me.” Had he repented? By no means. The only change Pharaoh was concerned about was not a change of heart or action, but a change that would remove the suffering of the plague. The Lord had hardened his heart.
The ninth plague of total, engrossing, pressing darkness lasted for three days. Again the plague did not fall upon the Israelites living in Goshen. Pharaoh’s response to this plague was to tell Moses that the men, women and children were to go into the wilderness to worship but they were to leave their flocks and herds behind. Once more we read the sad act of judgment that the Lord hardened the heart of the king of Egypt.
Exodus 11 – Plague on the Firstborn Announced
The Lord announced what the tenth plague would be. Not one household in Egypt would escape the judgment of this plague. After the Lord himself would kill firstborn sons and cattle, Pharaoh would not just permit the Israelites to leave, he would drive them out.
Exodus 12-15:22 – The Passover and the Exodus
Exodus 12 – Passover Instructions and the First Passover
On the 10th day of the month of Abib (later called Nissan) the Jews were to choose a year-old male lamb without blemish or defect . On the 14th of that month, the chosen lamb was to be sacrificed and blood was to be placed on the top and on the sides of the doorframes of the Israelite houses. None of the bones of the sacrificial lamb were to be slaughtered. The people were to cook the meat over the fire and eat it with bitter herbs . They were also to prepare and eat bread without yeast.
The Lord revealed that both the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened bread were to be celebrated every year as a commemoration and remembrance of the Lord’s deliverance of the children of Israel from slavery to the Egyptians. On the 14th Nissan, the Israelites were to keep a vigil because on the night of the first Passover the Lord had kept a vigil in order to redeem his people from Egypt.
At midnight, the tenth and final plague was visited upon the Egyptians. The Lord himself struck down all of the firstborn Egyptian sons as well as the firstborn of all the cattle and livestock. Not a single house was left untouched by death.
During that dreadful night, Pharaoh sent word to Moses to leave. The Egyptian citizens added their urgent pleas to Pharaoh’s directive. The Egyptians gave money and clothes as they were leaving.
The Lord was bringing his people into another stage in salvation history. After 430 years in Egypt, the tiny band of 70 has turned into a nation of 600,000 men, a total of around 2,000,000 people. In divisions, God’s Firstborn Son, is called out of Egypt and traveled from Ramses to Succoth.
Exodus 13 – Consecration of the Firstborn and Crossing the Red Sea
The Lord instructed the Israelites about how they were to consecrate, or set apart the firstborn male. Earlier, God had named Israel as his firstborn (4:22). As generation after generation consecrated their firstborns to the Lord, they were to be reminded of the Lord’s powerful and gracious rescue from the hands of the Egyptians.
The Lord knew his people Israel well. He knew that if they were to face battle so soon after being brought up out of Egypt, they would be struck with terror and would only want to return to Egypt. So instead of the most direct route to the Promised Land which would have been straight north, the Lord led them in a southward direction.
Carrying with them the bones of Joseph, Moses led the people in an orderly formation from Ramses to Succoth (named after the temporary “booths” they erected). The next stop was at Etham which was on the edge of the wilderness that separated Egypt from the Promised Land. The Lord himself is Israel’s guide. By day he went before them in a pillar of cloud and during the night he led them by a pillar of fire. This is none other than Jesus Christ himself (see 14:19). This visible sign of the Lord’s presence did not leave Israel throughout their wandering in the wilderness.
Exodus 14 – Crossing the Red Sea and the Defeat of the Egyptians
Pharaoh’s role in this account of salvation did not end with Israel’s hasty departure from his land, nor did it end only with tears streaming down his cheeks after the Lord killed his firstborn son in the tenth plague. Even in his hardhearted defiance, he would bring glory to God. Pharaoh predictably changed his mind about issuing the command for Israel to leave. With 600 of his best chariots and soldiers to go along with them, the most powerful man in the world pursued after his lost slave labor.
Time and again in this portion of salvation history, we will see that the children of Israel paint a hauntingly accurate portrait of human nature. Here we see that God’s prediction of 13:17 was spot on. When the Israelites caught sight of the pursuing Egyptian army, they turned on Moses and even opined that it would have been better to stay in Egypt as slaves than be slaughtered in the wilderness.
As he always does when mankind is weak and powerless to save themselves, the Lord intervened. He used Moses to remind the Israelites of his promises. He commanded Moses to stretch out his staff toward the water of the sea. He moved himself from the front of the column of Israelites to their rear to separate them from the Egyptians. He divided the waters of the Red Sea so that his firstborn could pass through on dry land. When the Egyptians tried to pursue and overtake the Israelites on the now dry floor of the Red Sea, the Lord threw them into confusion. As the waters of the Red Sea crashed down on Pharaoh and his army, the Lord put a glorious end to their rescue from Egypt. Not a sing Egyptian soldier survived.
As a result of the saving miracle of God, the Israelites put their trust in him. They also held him in deep respect and reverent honor. He had revealed himself as both Savior and Judge.
Exodus 15 – Moses’ Song
In response to God’s saving act of deliverance from the Egyptians, Moses and the Israelites sang to the Lord. In their song of praise, they relate and recount who God is and what he had graciously done for them.
Exodus 15:22-18:27 – Through the Wilderness to Mt. Sinai
Exodus 15:22-27 – The First Complaints
But in the aftermath of a glorious rescue and thankful response, we see and hear the truth about our human natures. We too quickly forget the work of the Lord on our behalf. We elevate current circumstance over past promise. After three days of not finding any water, they finally found some but it was too bitter to drink. In his grace and mercy, the Lord provided.
Exodus 16 – More Complaints and Manna and Quail
Imagine how much food would be needed to feel 2 million people for a month. That is the amount of time that had passed before the Israelites started wishing they were back in Egypt. Forgetting how they cried out in misery while they were in Egypt, they longed to be back there.
Again the Lord provided. He miraculously provided bread in the morning called manna and gave the people quail to eat in the evening. After some neglected and ignored the Lord’s instructions for the collection of manna for the sixth and seventh days of the week, the Lord rebuked them. For forty years the Lord would give them their daily bread in this way. A jar of manna was saved to be put into the ark of the covenant as a lasting reminder of the Lord’s power and providence (see Hebrews 9:4).
Exodus 17 – Still More Complaints and Water from a Rock… Victory in Battle
When the Israelites ran out of water, they grumbled against Moses and the Lord instead of trusting in the Lord to provide. In addition to their grumbling, they sinned by putting the Lord to the test when they called into question his continuing presence among them. In the New Testament, the Holy Spirit directed Paul to use this incident at Massah and Meribah as a picture of God’s grace in Christ Jesus (see 1 Corinthians 10:1-4).
For the first time, we hear of the one who would replace Moses as the leader of the Israelites in forty years. Joshua went into battle with the Amalekites. As long as Moses’ hands were lifted up, Israel won the battle. Aaron and Hur stepped in to hold up Moses’ hands. At the Lord’s direction, Moses recorded the account of the victory.
Exodus 18 – Advice from Jethro
Word of the awesome deliverance through the waters of the sea and the hands of the Egyptian army spread throughout the region of the Sinai Peninsula. Moses’ father-in-law brought Moses’ wife, Zipporah, and two sons, Gershom and Eliezer. He rejoiced in everything the Lord had done for his people and offered up offerings and sacrifices to the Lord. The Lord used Jethro to lead Moses to appoint leaders to help him administer justice and order among the people.
Exodus 19-24 – The Establishment of the Covenant with Israel
Exodus 19 – Consecration…The Lord on Mt. Sinai…Moses and Aaron Ascend Mt. Sinai
In the third month after Israel was delivered from Egypt, the Lord fulfilled a promise he had made when he called Moses to be the leader of the children of Israel. In Exodus 3:12, the Lord promised Moses that after the Lord had delivered the people from the Egyptians, Moses would worship the Lord there. Now Israel is encamped at the foot of Mt. Sinai. They would remain there for 11 months.
Read Exodus 19:1-9
18. With what words does the Lord introduce covenant in verse 4?
19. What are the stipulations of the covenant?
20. What are the results of Israel’s obedience to the covenant?
21. How did the people respond as Moses related the Lord’s covenant to them?
For three days the Israelites prepared as they consecrated themselves. They received the solemn warning not to touch the mountain. They washed themselves. They abstained from sexual relations. On the morning of the third day, the people were filled with fear and terror as thunder and lightning flashed and echoed. The trumpet pealed. The holy mountain was covered in smoke as the Lord took up presence on the mountain in a fire that billowed like smoke from a furnace. The glory of the Lord shoot the mountain as the trumpet’s blast grew louder and louder. It was then that Moses spoke to the Lord.
Read Exodus 20 – The Ten Words
22. Consider the following in light of how God introduces his Ten Commandments: “I am the LORD your God.” This is the “I AM” God speaking, the Lord who appeared to Moses once before at this same place and revealed himself as the same God who had spoken to the patriarchs. He is a personal being, a God who moved with unlimited freedom, timeless, constant, unchangeable, and above all a covenant-Lord who promised to redeem his people. August Pieper, one of our church’s venerable professors, used to say of this verse: “There is no purer, more heartwarming gospel in the whole Scripture than this verse with its promise.”
God had kept his promise. He had brought his people out of the land of slavery. Israel had experienced his redeeming hand. Recognizing their complete dependence upon the mercy and grace of God, and trusting in his continued promise of help, Israel was now to respond obediently by following the commands they were about to receive.
It is important for us to understand the Ten Commandments in the light of this introductory statement by the Lord. He did not give the Decalog so that Israel should obey his commands and thereby earn a favorable relationship with him. God had already made clear what this relationship was. He was their Savior-God. He had proved that to them in many ways. In love he had adopted them as his chosen covenant people. He now showed them by these Commandments how they could respond to his grace by living according to his holy will. From this same moral code, they could determine in what ways they would still fall short of that perfect standard which he placed before them, how much they still transgressed his law, and how much they still needed the forgiving love that only a gracious Lord could freely grant them.
23. How did the people respond to what they heard and saw?
24. What directions for worship did God give his people in verses 22-26?
Exodus 21 -23 – Terms of the Covenant
In these chapters the Lord revealed the laws and regulations that would govern the people. The Lord revealed laws on slaves, personal injury and homicide, property damage, society.
At the end of chapter 23, the Lord revealed his will regarding the Sabbath Day as well as regulating the repeating festivals that the Israelites were to observe and celebrate. The Lord then repeated his promises and portions of the covenant with them. The Lord would go ahead of them into the Promised Land.
Read Exodus 24 – Ratification of the Covenant
25. In what role did Moses serve in verses 1-4?
26. What was the response of the people to the covenant the Lord had made?
27. Identify the parts of the ratification of the covenant:
a. Verses 3,4a –
b. Verses 4b-6 –
c. Verses 9-11 –
Exodus 25-31 – Offerings and Instructions for Worship in the Tabernacle
In these chapters, the Lord gave his instructions for the construction of the Tabernacle. The Tabernacle was the place of worship, the only place where the Israelites were to make sacrifices. The two main parts of the Tabernacle were the Holy Place and the Most Holy Place. The yard outside of these was called the courtyard. In the Most Holy Place, or Holy of Holies, stood the Ark of the Covenant. This golden covered chest contained the two tablets, Aaron’s staff and a jar of manna. The top of the Ark was called the Mercy Seat. The Holy of Holies was separated from the Holy Place by a beautiful curtain. On only one day a year, the Day of Atonement, could the High Priest enter into the Most Holy Place, and that only with blood.
In the Holy Place we find the Altar of Incense, the Table of Presence and the seven-armed Lampstand. Only the priest could enter the Holy Place.
The Altar of Burnt Offering and the Basin were located in the Courtyard.
More will be said of the Tabernacle worship, the sacrificial system and the Jewish church year in future lessons and in the appendices.
Read 29:43-46 and note the purpose of the Tabernacle and all of its services. Look up John 1:14 and Revelation 21:3.
Exodus 32-34 – The Covenant Broken…Intercession…Renewal
Exodus 32 – The Golden Calf
Read Exodus 32:1-6
28. For how long was Moses on the mountain? (see 24:18)
29. What sin prompted the Israelites to say what they said to Aaron in verse 1?
30. What did Aaron do in response to their request?
31. In what way are the words spoken in verse 4 the height of sinful folly?
32. In stead of a “festival to the Lord,” what did the people have?
33. Read Psalm 106:19-23.
The Lord revealed to Moses what the people were doing and commanded Moses to leave so that the Lord’s anger could burn against the people for their sin and remove them from the face of the earth. Moses stepped in as mediator between the Lord and the people. He didn’t plead the goodness of the people, he didn’t seek to make excuses for their sinful and idolatrous actions…instead he pled the Promise God had made to Abraham, Isaac and Israel. He pled the perfect life, innocent suffering, sacrificial death and glorious resurrection of the Lord Christ and the forgiveness he won.
The Israelites, in their idolatry, had broken the covenant. In perhaps the most striking visual sermon ever preached, Moses illustrated this breaking of the covenant by breaking the tablets. After grinding up the idol into powder, he mixed the powder with water and made the people drink it who had not repented. The Levites rallied to Moses and served as the Lord’s instrument to put to death about 3,000 who had not repented. The Lord struck the people with a plague.
Exodus 33 – Moses’ Intercession
The Israelites responded in contrition and repentance. Moses received a special blessing from the Lord in that he spoke to the Lord face to face.
Read Exodus 33:12-23
34. Summarize what Moses said in verses 12 and 13.
35. How did the Lord respond?
36. In what way did Moses further struggle in prayer with the Lord in verses 15 and 16?
37. How did the Lord respond?
38. What was Moses’ final request of the Lord in this chapter?
39. How did the Lord respond?
Exodus 34 – The Covenant Renewed
Moses prepared two replacement tablets and ascended Mt. Sinai again. There the Lord revealed himself to Moses and preached a sermon on his own name (read 34:5-7). The Israelites were forgiven. Moses’ face shone with the brightness of the glory of the Lord.
Exodus 35-40 – Construction of the Tabernacle
The Israelites responded to the Lord’s forgiveness. They brought offerings for the construction of the Tabernacle. Their giving goes over and above the need. The Tabernacle and furnishings are built according to the Lord’s directions. The priestly wardrobe is made. Moses inspected it all and found that it had been done exactly as the Lord had commanded. Exactly one year after their rescue from Egypt, the Tabernacle is erected.
Read Exodus 40:34-38 – The Glory of the Lord
The glory of the Lord filled the Tabernacle. Here is where God made his presence known to his people. Here is where they would receive the assurance of the forgiveness of their sins. Here they would view many Old Testament pictures of the Christ. Here God’s promises were being fulfilled.
Miscellaneous Notes:
The Plagues: The following reference from The People’s Bible is helpful and instructive:
1. Blood (7:14–25)	4. Flies (8:20–32)	7. Hail (9:13–35)
2. Frogs (8:1–15)	5. Animal Disease (9:1–7)	8. Locusts (10:1–20)
3. Gnats (8:16–19)	6. Boils (9:8–12)	9. Darkness (10:21–27)
By placing these miracles into three groups of three each (3 x 3), as above, we can see some interesting patterns emerge:
In each series, the first and second plagues are announced to Pharaoh in advance. The third is given without previous warning.
The grouping of 3 x 3 leads to a climax in the number 10, the number that is the symbol for completeness.
Within the plagues as a whole, there is a progression, an increase in severity. These last three are especially severe and destructive.
The Egyptian magicians vie with Moses in duplicating the very first two plagues. At the third they try but no longer succeed in their magic arts. They must confess, “This is the finger of God” (8:19).
Beginning with the second series of plagues (4, 5, and 6), a distinction is made between the Israelites and the Egyptians. The land of Goshen, where the Israelites live, is spared.
The first nine plagues deal with phenomena that have to do with the world of nature. For this reason, some scholars try to explain the plagues as natural happenings, occurrences that possibly took place “as natural disasters and in the course of time were exaggerated to make up the account as recorded in Exodus.” We believe, however, that each plague was a miracle of God, in which God used the natural means of that country to manifest his supernatural power. Since the Egyptians worshiped these powers of nature, in what more effective way could God display his power over all things, even those things the Egyptians looked upon as deities!
Duration of the Plagues: Many Bible scholars assign a time period of about nine months during which the Lord sent the plagues on Egypt. We have little in the Biblical record that offers a clear timeline. The plague of frogs occurred nine days after the plague of blood. The plague of hail (7th plague) happened when the barley had headed (9:31). This would have been February. We know that the final plague took place in late March or in April.
Hardening of Pharaoh’s Heart: Consider the following quote from the Lutheran Confessions:
83 Furthermore, remember that God punishes sin with sins. This means that because of their self-confidence, lack of repentance, and willful sins, He later punishes with hard-heartedness and blindness those who had been converted [Hebrews 6:4–6]. This punishment should not be interpreted to mean that it never had been God’s good pleasure that such persons should come to the knowledge of the truth and be saved. For both these facts are God’s revealed will:
1. God will receive into grace all who repent and believe in Christ.
2. He also will punish those who willfully turn away from the holy commandment and again entangle themselves in the world’s filth (2 Peter 2:20–21), decorate their hearts for Satan (Luke 11:24–26), and despise God’s Spirit (Hebrews 10:29). They will be hardened, blinded, and eternally condemned if they persist in such things.
84 Even Pharaoh perished in this way. (Of whom it is written [in Exodus 9:16; Romans 9:17], “But for this purpose I have raised you up, to show you My power, so that My name may be proclaimed in all the earth.”) This was not because God had begrudged him salvation or because it had been His good pleasure that Pharaoh should be damned and lost. For God is not willing that any should perish [2 Peter 3:9]; “[He also has] no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live” (Ezekiel 33:11).
85 God did harden Pharaoh’s heart. In other words, Pharaoh always sinned again and again and became more hardened the more he was warned. That was a punishment of his earlier sin and horrible tyranny that in many and various ways he acted inhumanly toward the children of Israel against his heart’s accusations. God caused His Word to be preached and His will to be proclaimed to Pharaoh. Nevertheless, Pharaoh willfully stood up immediately against all rebukes and warnings. Therefore, God withdrew His hand from him, Pharaoh’s heart became hardened and stubborn, and God executed His judgment on him. For he was guilty of nothing other than hellfire. 86 So the holy apostle also introduces the example of Pharaoh for no other reason than to prove God’s justice by it, which He exercises toward the unrepentant despisers of His Word. By no means, however, has the apostle intended or understood this to mean that God begrudged salvation to him or any person. He doesn’t mean God had ordained Pharaoh to eternal damnation in His secret counsel so that Pharaoh should not be able, or that it should not be possible for him, to be saved. (Formula of Concord, Solid Declaration, XI, 83-86)
Luther’s Great Baptism Prayer: When Martin Luther looked to revise the Baptismal service he included the following prayer in the rite of Baptism. Note the references to the water of the flood and the Red Sea.
Almighty and eternal God, according to your righteous judgment you condemned the unbelieving world through the flood and in your great mercy preserved believing Noah and his family. You also drowned hardhearted Pharaoh with all his army in the Red Sea and led your people Israel through the same on dry ground, thereby prefiguring the bath of baptism. You, who through the baptism of your dear Child, our Lord Jesus Christ, have consecrated and set apart the Jordan and all water as a salutary flood and a rich and full washing away of sins: We pray through your boundless mercy that you will graciously preserve us with the true faith in the spirit so that by the means of the saving flood, once poured on us at our baptism, all that was born in us from Adam and which we ourselves have added to by our own sinfulness be daily drowned in us and engulfed. We also pray that we may be sundered from the number of the unbelieving, preserved dry and secure in the holy ark of Christendom, and serve your name at all times fervent in spirit and joyful in hope, so that with all believers we may be made worthy to attain eternal life according to your promise; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.
The 10 Commandments:
THE FIRST COMMANDMENT
You shall have no other gods.
What does this mean?
We should fear, love, and trust in God above all things.
THE SECOND COMMANDMENT
You shall not misuse the name of the LORD your God.
What does this mean?
We should fear and love God that we do not use his name to curse, swear, lie or deceive, or use witchcraft, but call upon God's name in every trouble, pray, praise, and give thanks.
THE THIRD COMMANDMENT
Remember the Sabbath day by keeping it holy.
What does this mean?
We should fear and love God that we do not despise preaching and his Word, but regard it as holy, and gladly hear and learn it.
THE FOURTH COMMANDMENT
Honor your father and mother, that it may go well with you and that you may enjoy long life on the earth.
What does this mean?
We should fear and love God that we do not dishonor or anger our parents and others in authority, but honor, serve, and obey them, and give them love and respect.
THE FIFTH COMMANDMENT
You shall not murder.
What does this mean?
We should fear and love God that we do not hurt or harm our neighbor in his body, but help and befriend him in every bodily need.
THE SIXTH COMMANDMENT
You shall not commit adultery.
What does this mean?
We should fear and love God that we lead a pure and decent life in words and actions, and that husband and wife love and honor each other.
THE SEVENTH COMMANDMENT
You shall not steal.
What does this mean?
We should fear and love God that we do not take our neighbor's money or property or get it by dishonest dealing, but help him to improve and protect his property and means of income.
THE EIGHTH COMMANDMENT
You shall not give false testimony against your neighbor.
What does this mean?
We should fear and love God that we do not tell lies about our neighbor, betray him, or give him a bad name, but defend him, speak well of him, and take his words and actions in the kindest possible way.
THE NINTH COMMANDMENT
You shall not covet your neighbor's house.
What does this mean?
We should fear and love God that we do not scheme to get our neighbor's inheritance or house or obtain it by a show of right, but do all we can to help him keep it.
THE TENTH COMMANDMENT
You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, workers, animals, or anything that belongs to your neighbor.
What does this mean?
We should fear and love God that we do not force or entice away our neighbor's spouse, workers, or animals, but urge them to stay and do their duty.
THE CONCLUSION  
What does God say about all these commandments? He says, "I, the LORD your God, am a jealous God, punishing the children for the sin of the fathers to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing love to a thousand generations of those who love me and keep my commandments."
What does this mean?
God threatens to punish all who transgress these commandments. Therefore we should fear his anger and not disobey what he commands. But he promises grace and every blessing to all who keep these commandments. Therefore we should love and trust in him, and gladly obey what he commands.
People: Below are listed some of the important people in this section. For your own understanding, briefly record why each is important.
Shiphrah	 
Puah	 
Moses	 
Reuel	 
Jethro	 
Zipporah	 
Gershom	 
Aaron	 
Nadab	 
Abihu	 
Eleazar	 
Ithamar	 
Phinehas	 
Miriam	 
Joshua	 
Hur	                                   
Eliezer	 
Places: Below are listed some of the important places in this section. For your own understanding, briefly record why each is important. For some places, more than one important event may have occurred there.
Horeb	 
Midian	 
Sinai Peninsula	 
Ramses	 
Succoth	 
Etham	 
Philistia	 
Marah	 
Elim	 
Desert of Sin	                                                          
Rephidim	 
Massah	 
Meribah	 
Summary and Review:
Exodus 1-4	Moses’ Birth through Moses’ Call
Exodus 5-11	Oppression and the Plagues
Exodus 12-15:22	The Passover and the Exodus
Exodus 15:22-18:27	Through the Wilderness to Mr. Sinai
Exodus 19-24	The Establishment of the Covenant with Israel
Exodus 19,20	Mt. Sinai and the Ten Words
Exodus 25-31	Offerings and Instructions for Worship in the Tabernacle
Exodus 32-34	The Covenant Broken…Intercession…Renewal
Exodus 35-40	Construction of the Tabernacle
Exodus 40                               	Erecting the Tabernacle and the Glory of the Lord
Prepare for Next Time: Please read the following references that are in bold print. If you have time, read all of them.
Leviticus 1-7	The Sacrifices                                       
Leviticus 8-10	The Priesthood
Leviticus 11-15    	Uncleanness
Leviticus 16   	The Day of Atonement
Leviticus 17-27	The Holiness Code   
Leviticus 23	The Sabbath and Festivals
Leviticus 25	The Year of Jubilee
Closing Prayer: CWS 718:4, Rest, O Christ, From All Your Labor
4 As through parting Red Sea waters Israel marched to liberty,
So we pass through baptism’s water, Washed by grace, from sin set free.
Jesus, risen, living, reigning Now and through eternity:
Grant that, through your life undying, We may live victoriously.
Text: Herman G. Stuempfle Jr., 1923–2007 © 1993 GIA Publications, Inc. All rights reserved. Used by permission.
最后更新于 2012年12月18日 星期二 13:23
MeasureMeasure
Get a free Evernote account to save this article and view it later on any device.
Create account
