---
weight: 6
slug: Old-Testament-overview-Engel-6
title:  第六课(Lesson6)神的解决办法
author: Pastor Engel
kecheng: Old Testament Overview-En
---

第六课(Lesson＃6)神的解决办法
                                                              The solution God found
The Bible teaches that you and I have nothing we could bring to the bargaining table. This is what made the Hebrew religion of the Old Testament different from any other religion in the ancient world. The costly solution God worked out to solve the conflict between his holiness and his mercy involved the principle of substitution. God would arrange to have a perfect substitute trade places with sinners under his condemnation.
Substitution at the time of Abraham
From their earliest history, God taught his people this important principle on which ­their eternal happiness would depend. On Mount Moriah, God taught this principle tothe father of the Israelite nation. Instead of permitting Abraham to take the life of his son, God provided a substitute: “Abraham looked up and there in a thicket he saw a ram caught by its horns. He went over and took the ram and sacrificed it as a burnt offering instead of his son” (Genesis 22:13).
Substitution at the time of the exodus
Five hundred years later, at another critical time in the history of the Israelites, God again provided a substitute to bring blessings to his people. After spending several centuries in Egypt, “the Israelites groaned in their slavery and cried out, and their cry for help ... went up to God” (Exodus 2:23). To force the Egyptian king to release his Israelite slaves (and also to unmask the impotence of the Egyptian gods), God sent ten plagues, ten terrible tragedies, over the land of Egypt. God let Moses know that the tenth of these plagues would be the worst:
About midnight I will go throughout Egypt. Every firstborn son in Egypt will die, from the firstborn son of Pharaoh, who sits on the throne, to the firstborn son of the slave girl, who is at her hand mill, and all the firstborn of the cattle as well. There will be loud wailing throughout Egypt-worse than there has ever been or ever will be again.” (Exodus 11:4-6)
To guarantee that the angel of death would not enter any Israelite home, God instructed his people to kill a lamb. They were to catch its blood in a basin and to smear the blood on the outer doorframes of their houses. The blood was the saving marker. That same night they were to eat the meat roasted over the fire. They ate that Passover meal fully dressed, with sandals on their feet and staffs in their hands, ready to leave on their nighttime journey at a moment’s notice.
That night the God who had made a solemn covenant with Abraham’s descendants entered every unmarked home in Egypt on a deadly mission. He passed over those homes that were protected by the blood of the sacrificial lamb. On the night that marked Israel’s birth as a nation, an animal substitute died so that God’s people could be spared. For 1,500 years each family slaughtered a lamb to commemorate that night of terror and liberty. Then John the Baptist pointed to Jesus of Nazareth and shouted, “Look, the [two-­legged] Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!” (John 1:29).
Substitution in Israel’s worship and the scapegoat
Israel’s worship life offered an excellent opportunity for God to teach his people this important principle of substitution. When God drew up the blueprint for Israel’s public worship, he made animal sacrifices an important part of it. These sacrifices were of different kinds – burnt offerings, fellowship offerings, sin offerings, and guilt offerings. (The specific emphasis of each of these will be discussed in the next chapter.) Although there were important differences in these offerings, all four were similar in that they were all blood sacrifices.
God taught his people that sin is not something to be taken lightly. Sin is not just an error in judgment, which we could have avoided if we had only taken time to count to 10. At his sanctuary day after day, God impressed upon his people that sin separates the sinner from his God. Day after day the truth was acted out before the eyes of God’s people: Sin costs a life. A worshiping Israelite, for example, who desired personal assurance of his forgiveness, could bring a lamb or a goat or a bull calf as a sin offering. That animal substitute had to forfeit its life, as a type or symbol of another Lamb, who on a skull-shaped altar many years later would offer his life as our substitute. Century after century, every one of the tens of thousands of animals slain and sacrificed on Jewish altars announced all over again and again, “The life of a creature is in the blood, and I have given it to you to make atonement for yourselves on the altar; it is the blood that makes atonement for one’s life” (Leviticus 17:11).
God taught his people the principle of substitution. He wanted them to understand that he forgives sins by transferring the punishment for sin from guilty sinners to an innocent substitute. This explains the statement the apostle made in the epistle to the Hebrews:
“Without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness” (Hebrews 9:22).
For 1,500 years the Hebrew people acted out Jesus’ substitutionary death on the cross with their animal sacrifices. The high point of their sacrificial system was reached in the fall of each year on the Day of Atonement (Yom Kippur, “yome kip-POOR”). Here again a holy God impressed on his people that it was only through the principle of substitution that he could receive rebel sinners back into his family. The elaborate liturgy for the great Day of Atonement is described in Leviticus chapter 16. It is worth your while to read the details there.
In one especially vivid part of that pre-Christ liturgy, a bull was killed and offered as a sin offering for the sin of Aaron, the high priest. Aaron took a bowl of the animal’s blood and entered the Most Holy Place-that innermost room of the tabernacle where the ark of the covenant rested. He dipped his hand into the bowl and sprinkled blood seven times on the golden cover of the ark. He sprinkled blood seven more times in front of the ark.
Then Aaron stepped outside and set aside two goats. The first was killed and offered up as a sin offering, this time for the sins of the people. Aaron entered the Most Holy Place again with the goat’s blood and sprinkled it, just as he had done with the blood of the bull.
Can you imagine what Aaron’s hands looked like when he stepped back outside the tabernacle? He had dipped them into that bowl of blood at least 28 times, and they were red with blood. Then the second goat was brought to him.
“He is to lay both hands on the head of the live goat and confess over it all the wickedness and rebellion of the Israelites-all their sins-and put them on the goat’s head. He shall send the goat away into the desert in the care of a man appointed for the task. The goat will carryon itself all their sins to a solitary place; and the man shall release it in the desert.” (Leviticus 16:21,22)
This was the so-called scapegoat. As it was led off into the desert and left there to die, the worshipers could see blood on its head, the blood of the sin offering, symbolizing their blood-red guilt before God. That guilt had now been transferred to a substitute. The scapegoat was a living picture of how, in God’s marvelous plan, God would transfer the sin of the world to an innocent substitute, who would carry it and suffer its penalty.
Here is the very heart of the gospel. Day by day in Old Testament times, God’s chosen people lived under the law and the gospel. God moved through the pages of Old Testament history in judgment and in mercy as he worked ceaselessly to win people to his way-the Jesus way. He wanted people for his family and for his eternal home. “We have been made holy through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once for all” (Hebrews 10:10).
The heart of the Old Testament
No Old Testament writer described this more clearly than the prophet Isaiah. And nowhere did Isaiah express these twin truths of law and gospel more beautifully than in chapter 53 of the prophecy that bears his name. Writing seven centuries before the promised Messiah came to earth, Isaiah described Christ’s substitutionary work in a way that has never been equaled:
Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows, yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. We all, like sheep, have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own way; and the LORD has laid on him the iniquity of us all. (Isaiah 53:4-6)
Because in our place our substitute lived a life of perfect obedience to the holy law of God, God considers us to be people who have given him the perfect obedience he demands. Because in our place our substitute died innocently under God’s curse, God considers us to have been punished for our sin.
And the result? Those joined intimately to Jesus Christ in Holy Baptism go from being condemned orphans without hope to being God’s adopted children without fear. What he has becomes ours; what we have becomes his. What a God!
Day by day in Old Testament times, God’s chosen people lived under the law and the gospel. The sacred secrets that God shared with ancient Israel centered on those two important truths, which seem to contradict each other:
1. The law announces: “God hates all sin and all sinners.”
2. The gospel announces: “God forgives all sin and loves all sinners.”
These two truths are the very heart of what God has to say to people. They are found in both the Old and the New Testaments. It is incorrect to call the Old Testament a law book and the New Testament a gospel book. Law and gospel are taught in both the Old and the New Testaments. There is no way you can harmonize these two basic truths of the Scripture. God’s Old Testament believers didn’t try. They simply accepted them both.
“Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness.” ... He did not waver through unbelief regarding the promise of God, but was strengthened in his faith and gave glory to God, being fully persuaded that God had power to do what he had promised. This is why”it was credited to him as righteousness.” The words flit was credited to him” were written not for him alone, but also for us, to whom God will credit righteousness-for us who believe in him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. He was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. (Romans 4:3,20-25)
The Christian today must learn to live under the constant tension between the message of God’s law and the message of his gospel. Martin Luther made the interesting comment about law and gospel: “Where one is missing, the other is wrong.”
Siegbert W. Becker, in The Foolishness of God, describes it thus:
The purpose of the law is to make us feel guilty, to humiliate us, to kill us, to lead us to hell, and to take everything from us. The purpose of the gospel is to declare us not guilty and to make us possessors of all things. Between the two of them, they manage to kill us to life.[1]
[1] Jeske, John C. Connecting Sinai To Calvary. Northwestern Publishing House. Milwaukee, WI.
God’s Path of Worship (John Jeske)
God’s Path of Worship
The tabernacle
When Moses climbed up Mount Sinai to receive God’s law, God gave him instructions for building the tabernacle, Israel’s first house of worship. The tabernacle was a large tent, 15 feet by 45 feet, made of sheets of linen cloth embroidered in bright colors of blue, purple, and scarlet. Actually it was four tents, one inside the next. Over the linen inner tent was a covering of black goat’s hair; over that was a covering of ram skins dyed red; and over that was a covering of the hides of sea cows (Exodus 26:1-14). Surrounding this large tent was a courtyard, 75 feet by 150 feet, enclosed by curtains. Since only the priests were permitted to enter the tabernacle, it was in this courtyard that the Old Testament people of God gathered to worship the Lord.
In pure mercy God, who is present everywhere and whom the heavens cannot contain, condescended to establish an earthly dwelling place among his people. Two things about the tabernacle should be noted in particular:
1. It was perfectly suited to Israel’s desert wandering.
2. Every detail of its design and furnishings taught the Israelites something about the sinner’s relationship with the holy God who had made the Savior-promise to Abraham.
A portable sanctuary
During 40 years of wandering in the desert, the Israelites camped in at least 40 different places that we know of (Numbers 33:1-48). When the pillar of cloud and of fire, which guided the Israelites during their desert wandering, would signal: “Stop here!” members of the tribe of Levi would get to work. One group would fit together the tabernacle framework-posts and crossbars made of acacia wood and overlaid with gold-in the very center of the camp. Over this framework a second Levite clan would then set up the tent and its coverings. A third would put the furnishings and equipment in place (Numbers 3:25-37). And then the fiery cloud symbolizing the Lord’s presence could be seen entering the tabernacle. With that fiery cloud, which the people knew as “the glory of the LORD” (Exodus 16:10), God reassured his people that he was present among them with all his grace and his favor. Because sin separates a person from God, the Israelites could not approach God by themselves. And so God came to his people.
“Have them make a sanctuary for me, and I will dwell among them” (Exodus 25:8). The tabernacle was a faint foreshadowing of the time when the Son of God took on a human body in the womb of a Jewish peasant girl and “made his dwelling among us” (John 1:14). It also foreshadowed still another time in the more distant future when, in a new heaven and a new earth, we will hear the wondrous words: “God’s dwelling place is now among the people, and he will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God” (Revelation 21:3 TNIV).
Tabernacle furnishings; the altar
When an Old Testament worshiper entered the enclosed courtyard, he saw the altar of burnt offering and, off to the right, a big bronze basin for the priests’ ceremonial washing. That altar was big; it had a surface area of more than 55 square feet for the animal sacrifices. To teach his people what a serious thing sin is, God announced: “Without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness” (Hebrews 9:22).
Day after day, as part of their worship, the Old Testament people of God brought goats and bulls and lambs as blood sacrifices and offered them up on that altar of burnt offering. When they brought their sacrifices, they did so for one of two reasons:
1. to give expression to the fellowship they enjoyed with God.
2. to restore that fellowship when it had been broken.
The worshiper would kill the animal, and the priest would sprinkle its blood against the altar. The Levites would cut apart the carcass and wash the pieces. Then the priest would offer all or part of the meat by fire to the Lord.
The Holy Place
Day by day when the priest entered the tabernacle to pray to God for the people, he entered a room known as the Holy Place. On the hem of his robe he had little golden bells to enable the worshipers, who were standing outside in the courtyard and couldn’t see the priest, to follow his activities. In the Holy Place was the golden lampstand, which resembled a stylized tree with seven branches. Each morning the wicks on the seven oil lamps were trimmed and the lamps filled with olive oil. Each evening the lamps were lighted and would burn through the night to symbolize that the Israelites enjoyed uninterrupted fellowship with their God. Even during the hours when the tabernacle was closed down and the people were sleeping, God was awake and alert to their needs.
Opposite the golden lampstand was a table of wood overlaid with gold. Every Sabbath 12 loaves of freshly baked bread (bread of the Presence) were placed on this table. This symbolized that the 12 tribes of Israel were constantly in the presence of the Lord. Their needs and their well-being were a matter of constant concern to him.
“Make an altar ... for burning incense,” God had told Moses on Mount Sinai (Exodus 30:1). Against the curtain that formed the far wall of the Holy Place was a small golden altar of incense. Every morning the priest would approach this altar and kindle incense on it with fire taken from the altar of burnt offering. All day long priests would approach this incense altar with the prayers and the praises of God’s people. God wanted his people to understand that, just as clouds of fragrant smoke rose from the burning incense, so their prayers were pleasing to him, for the sake of Christ, and were heard and answered by him.
The Most Holy Place
The innermost room in the tabernacle was the Most Holy Place, a perfect 15-foot cube.
Separating the Holy Place from the Most Holy was a thick curtain of blue and purple and scarlet yarn with figures of cherubim embroidered on it. Since the Most Holy was God’s earthly dwelling place, that curtain announced: “The sinner’s way to God is blocked by sin!” Sin separates God’s people from him. God is the sworn enemy of anything that destroys his people. That is not good news for people.
If the Lord had left things as they were, that curtain would have announced: “Sinner, there’s distance between you and God!” But the path of worship God designed for his Old Testament people announced another message. Once a year the high priest, carrying the blood of a sin offering, could pass through that curtain. As he stepped into God’s earthly presence, God was announcing: “1 will accept the death of a substitute!”
This is the curtain that was ripped in two from top to bottom when Jesus died on Calvary (Mark 15:37,38). By living the perfect life we sinners owed and by dying the accursed death we sinners had coming, Jesus brought separated sinners and God together again. By tearing that great curtain, God announced to every sinner on the planet: “Instead of a barrier, there’s now accord between you and me!”
There was only one piece of sacred furniture in the Most Holy Place, and that was the ark of the covenant. That was a wooden chest overlaid with gold, with a cover of pure gold (remember Raiders of the Lost Ark?). This chest-about as big as a wardrobe trunk-contained the two stone tablets inscribed with the Ten Commandments, the staff that confirmed the priesthood of Aaron, and a jar of the manna by which God fed Israel in the desert.
God also told Moses: “Make an atonement cover of pure gold ... and make two cherubim out of hammered gold at the ends of the cover” (Exodus 25:17,18). Atonement is not an everyday word for most of us. Actually it’s a made-up word. Through the death of our great substitute, God brought people who had been separated from him by their sin back at one with him. “At-one-ment” becomes atonement. It’s another way of describing the reconciliation between God and the sinner that resulted from the blood sacrifice on Calvary.
The atonement cover, with the two golden cherubim (angels) welded to it, was to symbolize the earthly throne of the heavenly God. In 1 Samuel 4:4, the Lord is described as “enthroned between the cherubim.” This atonement cover is sometimes referred to as God’s “throne of grace.” Here the high priest, representative of the sinful people, would approach God with the blood of sacrifice to make atonement for the sin of the people.
Worship leaders
When God designed a path of worship for his chosen people, he specified not only where they were to worship him. He also gave them specific instructions about who was to lead them in worship. God set the entire tribe of Levi apart for public ministry to serve him by assisting with the worship services of his chosen people. From all the clans of Levi God set apart the family of Aaron to serve him as priests.
Priests
During the year Israel spent at Mount Sinai, God spelled out the division of labor between the priests (Aaron/s descendants) and the rest of the Levites. The Lord told Aaron:
“Only you and your sons may serve as priests in connection with everything at the altar and inside the curtain. I am giving you the service of the priesthood as a gift. Anyone else who comes near the sanctuary must be put to death” (Numbers 18:7).
By instituting this priesthood, God announced to his chosen people: Don’t think you can simply come barging into God’s throne room whenever you feel like it and say whatever is on your mind. Don’t ever forget, “Your iniquities have separated you from your God” (Isaiah 59:2).
For God’speople during the centuries of the Old Testament the priest was the go­between-the middleman-between sinful people and a holy God. God was teaching them about the one-of-a-kind role that Christ plays between guilty sinners and a holy God. Israel’s priests were the mediators between the people and God. For Old Testament believersl this was the rule. The only way to God is through the priest.
Silver trumpets announced the beginning of each new day in Jerusalem. Huge temple gates swung open and, day by day, God’s chosen people again walked the path of worship God had designed for them. A priest approached the great altar of burnt offering and stirred into flame the embers that had been smoldering all night under the sacrifices. Now the first offering of the day, a burnt offering on behalf of the nation, could be offered to God. In God’ s design, the Levites could assist with preparing the animals for sacrifice, but the priests were the only ones who could approach the altar and actually offer the sacrifice. In this way they were living symbols of Christ, our great Priest. By offering himself on the altar of the cross as our substitute, he opened up our path to God. In each generation, one man from Aaron’s family was chosen as the high priest. He was the one, the only one, who once a year, on the great Day of Atonement, could enter the Most Holy Place with the blood of a sin offering.
Serving as a priest was a high privilege, restricted to only a select few in Israel. (Priests had to be able to trace their family tree all the way back to the tribe of Levi and to the family of Aaron.) That’s why it must have come as a distinct surprise when the apostle Peter wrote to the scattered Jewish Christians in the years after Easter and Pentecost:
“You are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God’s special possession, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light” (1 Peter 2:9 TNIV). When they first read that statement, Peter’s original readers may have done a double take. Their immediate reaction may very well have been: “Who, me-a priest?”
Centuries later, when the Roman church taught that the priesthood is a privilege the church confers only on certain selected leaders, you can imagine what a bombshell Martin Luther exploded when he taught from Scripture the universal priesthood of all believers – inother words, that every Christian is a priest of God! Through Christ’s perfect life as your substitute and through his innocent death as your substitute, you have the right of direct access to God. Through your baptism God has called you and equipped you to represent him in that particular slice of life where he has placed you.
Priests-whether in the Old Testament or in the New Testament-bring the needs of hurting people before the throne of God. Priests also transmit God’s message of judgment and of mercy to sinners who need to hear it.
Levites
Toward the’end of his life, King David took a census of all the men descended from the tribe of Levi. There were 38,000 of them. David announced: “Of these, twenty-four thousand are to supervise the work of the temple of the LORD and six thousand are to be officials and judges. Four thousand are to be gatekeepers and four thousand are to praise the LORD with musical instruments” (1 Chronicles 23:4,5).
The largest group of Levites served right in the temple, assisting the priests in the work of offering sacrifices. They skinned and gutted and dismembered the sacrificial animals and washed the pieces before the priests placed them on the altar.
They were in charge of the bread set out on the table, the flour for the grain offerings, the unleavened wafers, the baking and the mixing, and all measurements of quantity and size. They were also to stand every morning to thank and praise the LORD. They were to do the same in the evening and whenever burnt offerings were presented to the LORD on Sabbaths and at New Moon festivals and at appointed feasts. (1 Chronicles 23:29-31)
King David set apart some of the Levites “to sing joyful songs, accompanied by musical instruments: lyres, harps and cymbals” (1 Chronicles 15:16) and to conduct “the ministry of prophesying” (1 Chronicles 25:1). God worked through these singers to prophesy, to proclaim messages inspired by God. Other Levites were to take care of the sacred furnishings of the temple, making sure that the hundreds of gold and silver dishes and pans and bowls used in each day’s worship were returned at day’s end. Some baked the offering bread and provided oil for the lamps, the wine used in offerings, and the incense that symbolized prayers offered up to God. Some were “in charge of the treasuries of the house of God” (1 Chronicles 26:20). Others were designated to be gatekeepers, “guarding the gates of the house of the LORD” (1 Chronicles 9:23). They would spend the night stationed around the house of God, and they had the key to open it each morning. One final group of Levites was” assigned duties away from the temple, as officials and judges over Israel” (1 Chronicles 26:29).
When God designed a path of worship for his chosen people of Israel, he left nothing to chance or to guesswork. He specified, in great detail, the place where his people would worship him, as well as the designated persons who would lead them in worshiping God.
The worship service
When Christians today worship their Lord, their activity consists primarily of hearing God speak and then responding-in prayer and praise.
The worship experience of the Old Testament child of God was quite different. In one sense, the Old Testament worshiper participated less actively in the worship service than we do in our worship services today. At first it might seem to us that an Old Testament worshiper was more of a spectator than a participant, just watching what the priests and Levites were doing.
In another sense, however, the Old Testament child of God participated more fully in the worship services God designed for Israel than Christians do in their worship today. The ears and mouths of Israelite worshipers were active, and so was their sense of smell. Worshipers in that temple court could smell the fragrance of incense, which accompanied the offering of prayer. The huge altar standing outside the temple had a surface area of 900 square feet, over fires that never went out. Day after day hundreds and hundreds of pieces of sacrificial animals were placed on that altar. The smell of roasting meat must surely have attracted the attention of the worshipers’ noses, as well as their taste buds.
And how about their eyes? Think of all there was for Israelite children to see when they accompanied their parents to the temple on the Sabbath. They saw their father lead a lamb by a rope-a lamb born on their little farm the past spring. He handed the rope to the Levites who assisted the priests and heard him declare the particular kind of offering he was bringing. Perhaps it was a sin offering, perhaps a fellowship offering. The children watched as a priest inspected the animal for any imperfection. After he approved the animal for sacrifice, they watched as the priest laid his hand on the head of the lamb. That showed the lamb was about to become the vehicle of the particular offering that family was bringing. And then came the moment that was hardest for them to watch. With a knife given to him by the priest, their father stabbed the lamb. Then the priest sprinkled the lamb’s blood against the sides of the altar. Finally, the animal was skinned and cut apart and the body pieces placed on the altar. How distressing to be reminded that sin caused the death of an innocent victim!
The heart of Israel’s worship
In directing his Old Testament people to bring blood sacrifices, God taught them an important truth. Sin cannot be forgotten. Sin costs a life. The justice of a holy God demands the ultimate thing of value-one’s soul for one’s sin. God doesn’t condone our sin, nor does he compromise his standards. He doesn’t ignore our rebellion, nor does he relax his demands. But by becoming a human being, the eternal God became our substitute, took our sin on himself and-incredibly-sentenced himself to death! God is still holy, sin is still sin, and a world of sinners was redeemed. For 1,500 years the Jewish people acted out Jesus’ substitutionary death on the cross with the drama of their God­-scripted sacrifices. The animals chosen for sacrifice had to be perfect, without any blemish. Only perfect animals could point forward to Christ, “a lamb without blemish or defect” (1 Peter 1:19). The blood sacrifices were commanded by God to announce the basic Bible truth: God will accept a substitute.
The four blood sacrifices
When God designed a path of worship for his chosen people, he instructed them to worship him with various kinds of blood sacrifices-four in all. The first seven chapters of Leviticus describe burnt offerings, fellowship offerings, sin offerings, and guilt offerings. It’s important that we see the similarities between the four, but also to recognize the distinctive differences among each of them.
All four were similar in that the animal victim had to be a perfect specimen. All four were similar in that the life of the animal was taken. With all four God made the announcement, I have made atonement for your sin! “The life of a creature is in the blood, and I have given it to you to make atonement for yourselves on the altar; it is the blood that makes atonement for one’s life” (Leviticus 17:11). “Without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness” (Hebrews 9:22).
Each of the four sacrifices, however, was different, because each had a specific emphasis.
To see the differences among the four blood sacrifices, think of them as falling into two groups:
1. Burnt offerings and fellowship offerings gave expression to the worshiper’s covenant relationship with God and his joy at being in fellowship with God.
2. Sin offerings and guilt offerings repaired that covenant relationship when it had been broken by sin and restored fellowship with God.
The burnt offering (Leviticus 1)
The burnt offering was by far the most common of all the blood sacrifices. It was the first offering to be made every morning and the last one to be made before the temple gates closed at sunset. The burnt offering was the only one of the four blood sacrifices in which the entire sacrificial victim went up in smoke. This fact gives us a clue as to the specific purpose of the burnt offering. By offering the entire animal on God’s altar, Israelite worshipers expressed complete dedication to the God who had made a covenant of mercy with them.
The two burnt offerings that began and ended each day’s worship at the temple were sacrificed on behalf of the entire nation. With these offerings the people of Israel declared:
“Our covenant God, we dedicate ourselves totally to you!” Individuals or families could also bring personal burnt offerings to express their total consecration to the God who had made a covenant of mercy with Abraham and with them.
You can hear a New Testament echo of the burnt offering in the statement Saint Paul wrote to the Christians in Rome: “I urge you, brothers and sisters, in view of God’s mercy, to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God-this is your proper worship as rational beings” (Romans 12:1 TNIV).
The fellowship offering (Leviticus 3:1-17; 7:11-34)
The fellowship offering was the second blood sacrifice that expressed the loving relationship between God’s Old Testament people and the God who had made a solemn contract with them. When an Israelite brought a fellowship offering, only a small portion of the animal victim went up in smoke. Part of the animal was given to the officiating priest (Leviticus 7:31-34). The priest’s only income came from the offerings God’s people brought. The rest of the animal was roasted and eaten at a fellowship meal with the priest as God’s representative and the worshipers as God’s guests. God, the gracious Host, actually fed the worshipers with some of the meat that had been offered up to him. What an unusual blessing and privilege-to hear God say: “Be my guests! I want to be close to you!”
The sin offering (Leviticus 4:1-5:13;6:24-30)
The two blood sacrifices that have just been described expressed the covenant relationship the Old Testament believer had with God. God designed two other blood sacrifices as part of his people’s worship, however, that had a different purpose. These were intended to restore the covenant relationship with God, which had been interrupted by sin.
The first of these was the sin offering. Leviticus chapter 4 sketches four different scenarios, each of which called for bringing a sin offering-a sinful act on the part of the priest, or of the entire community, or of a leader, or of any member of the community. The purpose of the sin offering was to offer guilty sinners an opportunity to confess the sin that had interrupted their fellowship with God and to receive God’s assurance of forgiveness.
The ceremonial spilling of blood was especially prominent in the sin offering. After killing the sacrificial animal, the priest would put some of its blood on the altar of burnt offering (and sometimes even on the altar of incense inside the sanctuary). He would then pour out the rest of the blood at the base of the altar. “What the law was powerless to do ... , God did by sending his own Son ... to be a sin offering” (Romans 8:3).
The most elaborate form of the Old Testament sin offering occurred on the great Day of Atonement, sometimes called “the Good Friday of the Old Testament.” The central feature of this special day’s events was the sin offering, which the high priest would make for the people of Israel. But before he could offer a sacrifice to atone for the sin of others, he first of all had to make a sacrifice of atonement for his own sin. The high priest, therefore, first sacrificed a bull as a sin offering for himself. He took the blood of that sin offering, entered the Most Holy Place, stepped in front of the ark of the covenant, and sprinkled blood. The blood of animals could not, of course, take away sin; only the precious blood of Christ can do that. But the sacrifice of the bull pointed forward to Christ’s sacrifice, which atoned also for the sin of the high priest.
After making atonement for his own sin, the high priest again stepped before the altar of burnt offering and offered a goat as the sin offering for the people. Their sin had separated them from their God, and the high priest was a mediator between them and God. Once again the high priest entered the Most Holy Place and stepped before the ark of the covenant. He sprinkled blood again, this time with the prayer: “Lord, forgive the sins of your people!”
What took place inside the Most Holy Place each year on the Day of Atonement gives us a beautiful picture of exactly how God forgives sin. The high priest sprinkled blood on the atonement cover of the ark. Remember that the cloud over the ark symbolized the very presence of God on earth among human beings. Remember too that inside that ark were the two stone tablets of God’s law, which accused and convicted the Israelites of sin and threatened them with God’s punishment.
Do you see the picture God was drawing for his people? As the holy God looked down from the cloud above the ark, he saw his Ten Commandments and heard them condemn his people. But after the high priest sprinkled blood on the atonement cover, what did God see when he looked down? He saw blood that covered the sins of his people. He saw splashes of blood that-in God’s eye-blended into the blood shed on Calvary centuries later. Jesus’ blood atoned for their sin. It’s interesting to note that the Hebrew word for “to atone” is a verb meaning “to cover.”
Year after year, what took place inside the Most Holy Place on the Day of Atonement gave God’s people a picture of how he forgives sin. The blood of Christ covers our sin so that “there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus” (Romans 8:1).
But the worship service on the Day of Atonement included another significant action of the high priest. This event took place outside the temple for all the people to see. When the high priest had finished making the two sin offerings and praying to the Lord for forgiveness for himself and for the people, he stepped outside. His hands were dripping with blood, which he had sprinkled seven times on the atonement cover and seven times in front of it both times he entered the Most Holy Place. Now a second animal, a goat, was brought forward. In plain sight of all the people, the high priest was to “lay both hands on the head of the live goat and confess over it all the wickedness and rebellion of the Israelites-all their sins-and put them on the goat’s head. He shall send the goat away into the desert in the care of a man appointed for the task. The goat will carryon itself all their sins to a solitary place; and the man shall release it in the desert” (Leviticus 16:21,22).
The scapegoat was led far away into the desert. Everyone knew it would never return. This was God’s way of assuring his Old Testament people that “as far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us” (Psalm 103:12).
Forgiveness was real, but it came at the price of a life.
The guilt offering (Leviticus 5:14-6:7; 7:1-7)
The path of worship God designed for his Old Testament people included a second blood sacrifice that repaired the covenant relationship which had been broken and restored fellowship with God.
When an Israelite trespassed on the rights of others, putting himself in debt to another person, he had to bring a guilt offering. In contrast to the sin offering, which emphasized confessing sin and receiving God’s assurance of forgiveness, the guilt offering emphasized making restitution – to God and to the person offended. Like the other three, this was a blood sacrifice. The sinner who brought a guilt offering still needed atonement, which could be supplied only through the means God graciously provided in the spilled blood of the two-legged Lamb of God.
To appreciate the unique emphasis of each of the four blood sacrifices in the lives of God’s people, it may be helpful to review a few examples of when each of the four sacrifices was offered.
When Aaron and his sons were anointed as Israel’s first priests, they offered sin offerings (an opportunity for them to confess their sins and to receive God’s assurance of pardon) and burnt offerings (dedicating themselves totally to God as they began their new work of being mediators for a sinful people).
When Saul was crowned as Israel’s first king, the prophet Samuel assembled the nation at Gilgal (where the ark of God was) for the ceremony. “There they sacrificed fellowship offerings before the LORD, and Saul and all the Israelites held a great celebration” (1 Samuel 11:15). The Lord invited his new king and his people to a joyful meal to celebrate their fellowship with him.
When Jesus healed the man with leprosy, he told him: “Go, show yourself to the priest and offer the sacrifices that Moses commanded” (Mark 1:44). Which blood sacrifices had Moses commanded when a person with leprosy was healed? According to Leviticus chapter 14, that person brought all. Except the fellowship offering. In addition to the three blood sacrifices (the sin offering, the guilt offering, and the burnt offering), the person cleansed from leprosy also brought a grain offering as an expression of thankfulness to the giver of all good gifts.
It should be emphasized once again that all four of the Old Testament blood sacrifices rested on the atonement Christ would make for our sin, when as our substitute he traded places with us.
Israel’s sacred calendar
As the people of Israel moved toward their new homeland, God recognized that they were spiritually immature. He recognized also that they were constantly tempted by the idolatry that surrounded them on all sides. (Archeologists find idolatrous figurines at every level of Israelite occupation.) God therefore designed an elaborate path of worship for his people, and he announced this path to them at Mount Sinai. Every seventh day was set aside as the Sabbath (Leviticus 23:3). The worship calendar included a number of annual festivals, which served a double purpose for a spiritually immature people:
1. to help them build their worship life around the true God.
2. to help them to see and to look forward to Jesus Christ, who would complete God’s plan to rescue his people.
Three of these annual festivals are referred to as pilgrim festivals because they required heads of families (often accompanied by the entire family) to travel to the central sanctuary. From the time of David on, that was in Jerusalem. God had told his people: “Three times a year all your men must appear before the LORD your God at the place he will choose: at the Feast of Unleavened Bread [Passover], the Feast of Weeks and the Feast of Tabernacles” (Deuteronomy 16:16).
The feasts of Passover and Unleavened Bread
As God prepared to deliver his chosen people from slavery in Egypt, an event that marked their birthday as an independent nation, he gave them a new calendar. At the time he did this, they were in the seventh month of their older civil calendar. God introduced the new calendar by saying:
This month is to be for you the first month, the first month of your year.... Each man is to take a lamb for his family, one for each household.... [On] the fourteenth day of the month,... all the people ... must slaughter them at twilight. Then they are to take some of the blood and put it on the sides and tops of the doorframes of the houses where they eat the lambs. That same night they are to eat the meat roasted over the fire, along with bitter herbs, and bread made without yeast. ... Eat it in haste; it is the LORD’S Passover. This is a day you are to commemorate; for the generations to come you shall celebrate it as a festival to the LORD. (Exodus 12:2,3,6-8,11,14)
After the night the Israelites were liberated from slavery, God told them to start counting time from that day. They were now his free people. What had been the seventh month of their older civil calendar (the month of Abib-March/ April on our calendars) now became the first month of Israel’s new sacred calendar. On the 14th day of this month, for the rest of their history, the nation was to celebrate the Feast of the Passover. This was their Independence Day. That night every Israelite family ate the meat of a lamb or goat. The menu also included bread made without yeast (because yeast symbolized sin), bitter herbs (symbolic of their bitter slavery), and wine. The first Passover celebration was held the night the Israelites left Egypt. The last Passover of all time for believers was recorded in the Bible as the one Jesus celebrated with his disciples the night before he died. It was then that he replaced the Passover with the Lord’s Supper. This was the night on which Jesus earned his reputation as the rescuer whom Israel was to reflect on each Passover. For seven days after the Passover, the Israelites were to eat bread made without yeast.
As the families of Israel celebrated the Passover year after year, there was a double focus to their celebration. They first looked back in time to the night when lamb’s blood was spattered over the doorposts of their homes in Egypt. But each year, as they celebrated the Passover, God’s people also remembered that God had promised to deliver them from a plague much worse than slavery, much worse even than being put to death. God had promised our first parents that he would send a Champion to crush the power of Satan and to free his people forever from Satan’s control. As they celebrated the anniversary of their national deliverance each year, God’s Old Testament people looked forward to the greater deliverance God had promised. The New Testament helps us to see that Jesus is the true Passover Lamb. “Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed,” Saint Paul wrote to the Corinthians (1 Corinthians 5:7).
In the People’s Bible commentary Deuteronomy, author Mark Braun explains:
When Pontius Pilate sent soldiers to break the legs of the men crucified with Jesus, they didn’t break any of Jesus’ bones because he was already dead; the apostle John cited this as the fulfillment of Exodus 12:46, “Not one of his bones will be broken” (John 19:36). That verse was originally a command regarding the preparation of the Passover lamb. John saw Jesus as the fulfillment of the Passover, the ultimate Passover Lamb.
The Feast of Weeks (Pentecost)
Fifty days after the Passover, the Israelites celebrated the second of their three great pilgrim festivals. The field crops (barley and wheat) had ripened, and this was the time of the grain harvest. On the sixth day of the third month (our May /June), God commanded his people to celebrate the Feast of Weeks, also called Pentecost or the Feast of Harvest. “On the day of firstfruits ... present to the LORD an offering of new grain during the Feast of Weeks” (Numbers 28:26).
This spring harvest festival was a time when the Israelites brought the firstfruits of their crop to the Lord in gratitude for providing them with all they needed for body and life. It was at the celebration of this harvest festival, 50 days after Christ rose from the dead, that God poured out his Holy Spirit on the gathering of Christians and the apostles began to harvest-not wheat but souls.
The Feast of Tabernacles
At the end of the sunny, rainless summer, when the grapes and figs and olives were
ripe for harvest, Israel celebrated the third of its three great pilgrim festivals.
“On the fifteenth day of the seventh month the LORD’S Feast of Tabernacles begins, and it lasts for seven days. The first day is a sacred assembly; do no regular work. For seven days present offerings made to the LORD by fire, and on the eighth day hold a sacred assembly.” (Leviticus 23:33-36)
“On the first day you are to take choice fruit from the trees, and palm fronds, leafy branches and poplars, and rejoice before the LORD your God for seven days .... All native-born Israelites are to live in booths [for seven days] so your descendants will know that I had the Israelites live in booths when I brought them out of Egypt.” (Leviticus 23:40-43)
Five days earlier, the Israelites had celebrated the Day of Atonement. That solemn festival reminded the Israelites of their sin and of the costly solution God had provided for that serious problem. A few days later came the joyous celebration of the Feast of Tabernacles. Here for seven days God’s people, who had traveled to Jerusalem for the festival, thanked God, first of all, for giving them another harvest of grapes, olives, figs, and dates. But God wanted them also to recall his mercy in protecting his people during the 40 years they had spent in the desert. He therefore commanded them to build shelters on the streets and rooftops. These were temporary structures of tree branches and vines in which the worshiping Israelites lived for the entire seven-day feast.
What a memory this must have been for Hebrew girls and boys, men and women! The preparation, the trip to Jerusalem, the relatives and friends, the sight of the great walls of the city of God coming into view, the construction of a leafy lean-to and living in it for seven days! They must have thought: What a great God we have! And what a precious identity we have as the nation from which the Savior will be born! What beautiful and meaningful worship God has designed for us![2]
[2] Jeske, John C. Connecting Sinai To Calvary. Northwestern Publishing House. Milwaukee, WI.
最后更新于 2012年12月18日 星期二 13:23
MeasureMeasure
Get a free Evernote account to save this article and view it later on any device.
Create account
