---
weight: 7
slug: Old-Testament-overview-Engel-7
title:  旧约概论附件1（Old Testament Overview Appendix 1）
author: Pastor Engel
kecheng: Old Testament Overview-En
---

旧约概论附件1（Old Testament Overview Appendix 1）
alt

Abraham’s Travels

alt

                                                   Engelbrecht, Edward A.: The Lutheran Study Bible. St. Louis, MO : Concordia Publishing House, 2009, S. 33

Abraham’s Journeys
Genesis 11-13

alt
  Franzmann, Werner Herman: Bible History Commentary : Old Testament. electronic ed. Milwaukee, WI : Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod, 1998, c1980.

Abraham and Isaac
Genesis 12-35

alt
Franzmann, Werner Herman: Bible History Commentary : Old Testament. electronic ed. Milwaukee, WI : Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod, 1998, c1980.

Jacob’s Journeys
Genesis 28-35

alt
Franzmann, Werner Herman: Bible History Commentary : Old Testament. electronic ed. Milwaukee, WI : Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod, 1998, c1980.

Jacob’s Travels

alt
JACOB’S TRAVELS. Jacob’s mother, Rebekah, was from Paddan-aram (Gn 25:20). Jacob went from Beersheba to his uncle’s home in Haran (28:10). On the way, God spoke to Jacob in a dream at Bethel (28:11–22). In Haran, Jacob married Leah and Rachel, the daughters of Laban, Rebekah’s brother (29:1–30). Later, on his way back to Canaan, Jacob settled matters with Laban in Gilead (ch 31). He camped at Mahanaim (32:1–2), then wrestled with God at Peniel (32:22–32). Esau went to Seir, but Jacob went to Succoth and Shechem (33:16–20), then to Bethel (35:1). Rachel died near Ephrath (35:16–20). Isaac was buried at Mamre (35:27–29), and Jacob’s son Joseph rose to administer all Egypt, bringing his father and his brothers to Goshen (37:12–36; 39:1–47:12). Jacob died in Egypt and was buried at Mamre (49:28–50:14).[1]
[1]Engelbrecht, Edward A.: The Lutheran Study Bible. St. Louis, MO : Concordia Publishing House, 2009, S. 60
