---
weight: 8
slug: Old-Testament-overview-Engel-8
title:  旧约概论附件2（Old Testament Overview Appendix 2）
author: Pastor Engel
kecheng: Old Testament Overview-En
---

旧约概论附件2（Old Testament Overview Appendix 2）
Genesis
The Beginning History of God’s Saving Activity
1. Among the original world (1-11).
2. Among the patriarchs (12-50).
Author: Moses
Date Written: ca. 1446-1406 BC
Purpose: The Lord reveals the creation of the world and mankind and the ruin of his creation. After making the promise of salvation to Adam and Eve, the Lord reveals how he repeated and sustained his promise.
Timeline:
Event	Approximate Date
Creation
Flood
Tower of Babel
Birth of Abram	2166
Birth of Sarai	2156
Call of Abram	2091
Birth of Isaac	2066
Death of Sarah	2029
Birth of Jacob	2006
Jacob to Haran	1929
Birth of Joseph	1915
Joseph sold into slavery	1898
Death of Isaac	1886
Jacob to Egypt	1876
Death of Jacob	1859
Death of Joseph	1805
Law Themes: Sin brings death; original (inherited sin); slavery to sin; God’s judgment on sin
Gospel Themes: The Promise of the One who would crush Satan’s head; God’s covenant with Abraham; substitution
Important Chapters:
1,2 – Creation
3 – First sin and first promise
6-9 – Flood
11 – Tower of Babel
12 – Call of Abram
15 – Covenant with Abram
22 – Abraham’s test
37 – Joseph sold into slavery
49 – The Promise given to Judah
Exodus
Jehovah’s Covenant with the People of Israel
1. The deliverance of the covenant people (1-18).
2. Establishing the covenant with Israel (19-24).
3. The entry into the place of the covenant, the Tabernacle (25-30).
Author: Moses
Date Written: ca. 1446-1406
Purpose: The Lord reveals himself to Israel, rescues them from Egypt and gives them a covenant of law and sacrifice.
Timeline:
Event	Approximate Date
Death of Joseph	1805
Birth of Aaron	1529
Birth of Moses	1526
Moses in Egypt	1526-1486
Moses in Midian	1486-1446
The Exodus	1446
Moses leads Israel	1446-1406
Law Themes: Judgment on Pharaoh and Egypt; death; 10 Commandments
Gospel Themes: God “remembers” his promises; substitution; blood sacrifice; “I AM”
Important Chapters:
3 – Call of Moses
12 – Passover
14 – Red Sea
16 – Manna and Quail
20 – The Ten Words
32 – The Golden Calf
34 – The Covenant Confirmed
