---
weight: 0
slug: basic-bible-doctrine-class-0
title:  Lesson 1 Introductory Remarks
author: Mrs. Chris
kecheng: Basic Bible Doctrine Class
---


Lesson 1 Introductory Remarks

2 Corinthians 4:2
. . . by setting forth
the truth plainly
we commend ourselves
to every man’s conscience
in the sight of God.

Avoid Scripture Twisting:

Eight Basic Rules of Bible InterpretationSubmit

Submit

1. Begin with what the passage says, but always ask, “What does the passage mean?”, not what it “says.”

2. Pay attention to the Greek and Hebrew, (For those without language training, an interlinear Biible used in conjunction with a Vine’s Expository Dictionary of new Testament Words or Expository Dictionary of Bible Words is recommended).

3. Remember the context. Read verses in the con text of the whole passage, the chapter and even the book. Finally, keep in mind the larger context of the new Testament or Old Testament.

4. The Bible is progressive revelation. This means that, generally, the New Testament specifically interprets the Old Testament.

5. Always interpret the incidental passage by the systematic teachings of that topic; consider all the passages dealing with the topic. A good topical Bible is a useful aid (e.g. Nave’s Topical Bible).

6. Interpret the unclear passages by the clear ones. A favorite ploy of the cults is to choose a difficult passage and build their unique doctrines on it.

7. Beware of novel interpretations; check various conservative commentaries on the passage. There is very little new under the sun. Many of the heresies of the cults have been dealt with thoroughly. Even though there are many Christian denominations, it is interesting that on the essential doctrines there is solid agreement. Always go beyond what the passage is saying to get to its intended meaning. Cult leaders are expert in isolating passages and imposing their interpretation on it.

8. Come to Scripture prayerfully, submitting to be taught by the Holy Spirit, allowing the Scripture to interpret itself and not be clouded by personal doctrinal presuppositions.


Watchman Espositor, Vol. 12, No. 1, 1995

##### TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. The Message of the Bible

2. The beginning of the World and Its Problems

3. Tracing God’s Promise from Adam to Christ

4. The Life of Christ

5. The Holy Trinity

6. The Person and Work of the Holy Spirit

7. The Work of the Holy Spirit through Law and Gospel

8. God’s Grace Given to Us through Baptism

9. God’s Grace Given to Us through the Lord’s Supper

10. Prayer

11. Spiritual Warfare and Spiritual Growth

12. God’s History from Christ until Judgment Day

13. The Church, Churches, and Christian Fellowship

14. Christian Marriage and Family

15. Making Disciples – Our Highest Calling

##### LESSON ONE

##### INTRODUCTORY REMARKS:

The Bible is effective and affective.

There are no stupid questions.

We must go at your pace, not mine.

God tells us the way it is, not always why it is or how it is.

What is the message of the Bible?

God, who is perfect in love, made humankind to be his loving family on earth forever.
(Genesis 1; I John 4:16)

Humankind has collectively and individually rejected God’s plan and has chosen to live selfishly. (Genesis 3:1-6; Ecclesiastes 7:20)

God is just and must punish each and every sin. (Ezekiel 18:20)

God is love and wants all people to be spared eternal punishment. (I timothy 2:4)

God’s love and his justice met on the cross of Jesus Christ. (Romans 3:25-26)

Jesus took our just punishment and showed us his love. Now we have the opportunity to live forever through faith in him. (John 3:16)

##### THE MESSAGE OF THE BIBLE IS JESUS!

##### JOHN 5:39

What does the Bible say about all the problems I have in this life?

The Bible says they are all linked to my big problem of being a sinner. (James 4:1-5; Galatians 5:19-21)

The Bible says the solutions for my problems are linked to Christ, the solution to the big problem. (Colossians 2:1-4; Titus 2:11-14)

Example: If my problem is that I have been hurt by someone, the Bible shows me how to forgive (Ephesians 4:32)

Example: If my problem is low self-esteem, the Bible reminds me of who I am as a believer in Christ. (I Peter 2:9)

How is the Bible arranged?

The Bible is arranged chronologically.

The Old Testament is the collection of writings that were written before Christ came.

The New Testament is the collection of writings that were written after he ascended into heaven.

What is the purpose of the Old and New Testaments?

The purpose of the Old Testament is to show us how God kept the promise of a Savior alive until he came.

The purpose of the New Testament is to show us how Christ fulfilled the promise of a Savior and to teach us what salvation means for our lives.

Homework: Isaiah was first written in Hebrew 700 years before Christ. Matthew was first written in Greek a few decades after Christ ascended. Read Isaiah 53 and Matthew 26:17 to the end of chapter 28. As you read compare Isaiah to Matthew. In the spaces below write the verses from the two books that go with each other. (Certain verses of Matthew show how Christ fulfilled Isaiah’s prophecy.)

###### Isaiah                                                               

##### Matthew

------------------------------- -------------------------------

------------------------------- -------------------------------

------------------------------- -------------------------------

------------------------------- -------------------------------

------------------------------- -------------------------------

------------------------------- -------------------------------

------------------------------- -------------------------------

