---
weight: 1
slug: basic-bible-doctrine-class-1
title:  Lesson 2-3 The Beginning of the World and Its Problems
author: Mrs. Chris
kecheng: Basic Bible Doctrine Class
---

Lesson 2-3 The Beginning of the World and Its Problems
LESSON TWO
The Beginning of the World and Its Problems
Introductory Remarks:
The Bible tells the history of the world in order to teach specific lessons. (Sermonic)
Today we will study the Biblical account of the beginning of the world and its problems.
How did the world begin? – Read Genesis 1
As we read this chapter, look for the truths being emphasized by the way it is written. (Hint: repeating phrases and word order.) In the space below jot down what phrases jump out at you while we read.
What about evolution?
Fact?         Faith?
Why is evolution a belief system rather than science?
1.Evolution cannot go beyond the second step of the scientific method (observation, hypothesis, experimentation, theory, experimentation, law)
2.It is mathematically impossible for nonliving matter to give birth to living matter. (Explosion in a typewriter factory)
3.The second law of thermodynamics teaches us that all of nature is in a continual shift from order to disorder. (Law of Entropy, gardening)
4.There are no irrefutable transitional life forms in the fossil record. Those that appear to be transitional are very few.
For Discussion:
Creation and evolution are both belief systems about the origin of the universe and life. Both describe events that cut against the grain of natural science. How do evolution and creation differ when giving reasons for unnatural occurrences?

What ramifications does each view have on one’s view of humanity?
If God created our world to be perfect (very good), why is it so imperfect now (death, sin, trouble)?
Read Genesis 2:15 – 3:7
What was ironic about the devil’s comment in verse 5?
Who brought sin into creation and humanity?
A.God did by putting the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in the garden.
B.The devil did by using a serpent to tempt Eve. (Devil/Serpent-Rev. 12:7-9)
C.Adam and Eve did by disobeying God’s command.
Answer: ------------
When Adam and Eve sinned, what did God do about it? – Read Genesis 3:8-24
1.God showed his love and grace by coming to look for them.
2.God showed his justice by enforcing consequences for their sins.
3.God promised his ultimate justice and grace to come in a person who would defeat Satan and stop his plan to wreck God’s relationship with humanity.
Homework:
Read Genesis 4-9 and answer the following questions. Also, use the space below to jot down any questions you might have as you read.
1.How did the first person to die meet his death?

2.What strikes you when you compare 5:1 to 5:3?

3.How long did it take Noah to build the ark?

4.What sign did God place in nature to promise us that he would never destroy the earth with water again?
THESES ABOUT EVOLUTION
Thesis #1: If we reject God because we are rational human beings, we must seek something else to explain our existence.
Thesis #2: Evolution is the result of modern humankind’s desire to explain our existence without God.
Thesis #3: Evolution has “freed” people to do many evil things in our modern era. (i.e. atheism, communism, fascism, genocide, abortion, racism, infanticide, euthanasia, crime, etc,)
Thesis #4: Evolution strips people of human dignity, telling them they are glorified monkeys and not God’s special creation.
Thesis #5: The basic tenets of evolution cannot be reproduced in the laboratory and have not been found in fossil form and hence must be believed by faith:
life began spontaneously from non-life;
Single-cell organisms begat multi-cell organisms;
Plants begat animals;
Organisms of all types can mutate across species lines.
Thesis #6: Evolution is more religion than science.
Thesis #7: Because science us based on inductive logic versus deductive, evolution can, from a human standpoint, neither be proved nor disproved.
“Smoking causes cancer”
“Heliocentric Parallax”
Thesis #8: Because evolution is based on inductive logic, it is impossible for “creation science” to disprove it logically.
Thesis #9: “Creation science” attempts to explain the world using a Biblical model.
Thesis #10: Because there are many heretics and even kooks in creation science, the question arises, “whose Biblical model?”
Thesis 11: Creation science makes the same fundamental mistake evolution does. . . it attempts to explain things on the basis of human reason and observation and not on the basis of God’s Word.
Thesis #12: Because creation science principles may at a later time be proven to be false, reliance on those ideas may lead to disappointment, embarrassment and even loss of faith.
Thesis #13: Reliance on creation science principles may lead to consciences needlessly and falsely bound.
Thesis #14: We must never confuse the principles of creation science with what the Bible actually says.
Thesis #15: Our faith must be based on Jesus Christ and the Word of God, and not Duane Gish and the Creation Science Institute.
PREHISTORIC
Submit
Submit
In the Beginning
The earth was born from a huge, spinning cloud
of hot gases about 4.6 billion years ago. As the
gases cooled, they formed rocks. Volcanoes
covered the new planet, shooting up water
vapor which formed the first, very hot seas.
At that time, the atmosphere was made up of
poisonous gases, such as methane, carbon
monoxide and ammonia. Lightning and fierce
storms hit the Earth but the first rain quickly
dried up on the hot surface.
Life Begins
At first the seas were like a chemical soup
covering the Earth. The first living things
grew in it about 3.2 billion years ago.
Fossils of these tiny cells have been found
in a kind of ancient flint rock.
A Different Map
A map of the Earth 170 million years ago would have looked quite different from a modern map. At that time, all the land was one huge continent called Pangaea. It was surrounded by ocean. Over millions of years, Pangaea broke up into the continents we have today.
Blue-greens
Some of the first plants lived 3 billion years ago. They were tiny algae, called blue-greens. These plants have left a huge number of fossils in rocks in Africa, Australia, and in the Grand Canyon, USA.	Breathing Life
Without plants, no animals could have ever lived on Earth. In sunlight, plants give off a gas called oxygen, which all animals need to breathe. Oxygen from the plants went into the atmosphere until there was enough for animals to breathe. Today, algae still make about two-thirds of all the oxygen in the Earth’s atmosphere.
THE PROMISED LAND
The land God promised to Abraham and his descendents lies between the Mediterranean Sea and the Arabian Desert. It is roughly 145 x 70 miles in area.
There are no natural harbors on the Mediterranean coast, so Israel never became a sea power as did their neighbors to the north, the Phoenicians.
The land rises from the sea eastward in a narrow coastal plain, foothills and a highland ridge, where most of the major cities were built. Breaking up the ridge in the north is the Plain of Esdraelon, from the southern edge of the Sea of Chinnereth to the Mediterranean. The Jordan River Valley, well below sea level, empties into the Dead Sea, the lowest spot on earth. East of the Jordan, a plateau extends into the desert country.
HOMEWORK: Read the sermon preached by the Apostle Paul when he visited a Jewish synagogue in Acts 13:13-41. As you read the sermon, compare his train of thought with the diagram if Old Testament history here in lesson three. Notice how the Holy Spirit led Paul to preach the Old Testament as the book promising the Savior.
OLD TESTAMENT PLACES AND PEOPLE
PART ONE – THE HOLY LAND
THE MEDITERRANEAN WORLD
Important empires and major cities in Old Testament times.
