---
weight: 11
slug: basic-bible-doctrine-class-11
title:  Lesson 13 Churches and Fellowship
author: Mrs. Chris
kecheng: Basic Bible Doctrine Class
---

Lesson 13 Churches and Fellowship
LESSON THIRTEEN
Churches and Fellowship
How many Christian churches are there?
1 Peter 2:4-10: There is only one Holy Christian church on earth. It consists of those who have been called out of a sinful and self-centered life and into a life of faith in Christ and love for God and people. (See also Ephesians 3:14-21)
It is called Holy because all its members have had their sins removed.
It is called Christian because it is built upon Jesus Christ, the Savior.
It is called a church because it is a distinct group of people who have been called out of the unbelieving world.
How does one become a member of this church?
Romans 10:12-17: A person becomes a member of the Holy Christian church when he believes in Christ as his personal Savior. (The Gospel of Christ creates a faith in our hearts. That same Gospel comes to us in the Word of God, and in the Word of God attached to Baptism and the Lord’s supper.)
How do we know who is a member of the Holy Christian church?
1 Samuel 16:7: Only God can read hearts. He alone knows who has true faith in Christ. We call the Holy Christian Church an invisible church.
If there is one Holy Christian Church, why are there so many churches and denominations on earth?
John 17:13-23: Jesus prayed that the Holy Christian Church would suffer no divisions on earth. However, ever since its beginning Satan (the evil one) has brought division to the church by tempting Christians to hold on to false teaching. (e.g. Acts 15, Galatians)
Romans 16:17-18: When Christians encounter false teaching they must confront the teacher and avoid him if he persists in his false teaching.
THERE ARE SO MANY CHURCHES BECAUSE SATAN HAS SUCCEEDED IN GETTING BELIEVERS TO HOLD FAST TO FALSE TEACHING.
SINCE NO PERSON CAN READ ANOTHER’S HEART, HE MUST READ ONLY THE OTHER PERSON’S CONFESSION ABOUT WHAT HE BELIEVES.
SINCERE BELIEVERS WILL ALWAYS SEPARATE THEMSELVES FROM FALSE TEACHING FOR THREE REASONS:
Love for God and his Word.
Love for the one who is teaching falsely.
Love form the unlearned in God’s Word, lest they be deceived by the false teaching.
Doesn’t God want his church on earth to try to reunify herself against Satan?
1 Corinthians 1:10: Yes, God wants his church on earth to be unified.
How does God want his church to work toward unity?
John 17:17: He wants the church to be unified on the basis of the pure truth about Jesus Christ.
Matthew 28:19-20: This is clear from the great commission.
Romans 16:16-17: We honestly work toward unity on the basis of truth when we avoid false teachers.
Titus 1:5-11: We work toward true unity when we demand that our pastors and teachers have a thorough knowledge and faith in all Scriptures.
2 Timothy 4:1-5: We work for true unity when we expect people joining our churches to learn accurately the saving truths of the Bible.
1 Corinthians 10:17: We work for true unity when we expect those expressing their unity in Christ to also express their separation from false teaching.
We call this Biblical doctrine about separating from false teaching and teachers while seeking unity with those who agree with the Scriptures, “The Doctrine of Church Fellowship.”
Why do some churches seek unity with others without agreement on the teachings of the Bible? (i.e. Baptism, conversion, Lord’s Supper, the Pope.)
These churches seek such unity because of two presuppositions to which they hold:
Scripture is unclear on some things and so we, too, should not be adamant about such things. (But see 2 Timothy 3:14-16.)
True spiritual love means that you must tolerate those who disagree with you. (But
see Romans 16:17; Titus 3:9-11; Galatians.)
These churches seek unity by minimizing doctrinal differences. Hey simply agree to disagree.
Are the people who have faith in Christ as their Savior but who belong to churches that teach error, going to heaven?
1 Corinthians 3:10-15: Yes, they will go to heaven but it will be in spite of the false teaching they have held to.
2 Timothy 2:14-19L However, those that knowingly hokd to false teachings will be lost if they do not repent of such willful sin. (See James 3:1.)
Questions for Discussion:
1. Explain the following statement: “Toleration in society and in the church are different things!”
2. Read Hebrews 5:11-14 and explain the following statement: “We appreciate the doctrine of fellowship more as we grow in faith and knowledge of the Scriptures.”
3. Explain the difference between the Holy Christian Church and the many different types of Christian denominations.
4. Is any church truly “non-denominational”?
5. What is the difference between a heterodox church and a cult?
