---
weight: 12
slug: basic-bible-doctrine-class-12
title:  Lesson 14 Christian Marriage and Family
author: Mrs. Chris
kecheng: Basic Bible Doctrine Class
---

Lesson 14 Christian Marriage and Family
LESSON FOURTEEN
Christian Marriage and Family
God has, is and always will be the God of order. When he first created the world and humankind. He created it with the intent that there be beautiful order. He accomplished this by creating a man and a woman and establishing the basic building block of all human society – marriage and the family that springs from it.
God created marriage and family at the same time he created mankind. Yet, nothing has been so abused, misused, and misunderstood as the marriage and family. The destruction of the family is the result of sin. This study is designed to enlighten our minds to the design and purpose of marriage and family. And then to show how God wants to enable sinners to live in the orderly way he intended.
What is the essence of marriage?
Genesis 2:18-24: The creation account shows how God created Adam with the need for a woman. He was prepared for her and she for him. The essence of their marriage relationship and ours is found in Genesis 2:24:
“For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and they will become one flesh.”
From this verse we learn the three ingredients that make a true marriage:
1. One man and one woman: (Not one man and one man or one woman and one woman) From the beginning God has intended that marriage be heterosexual.
2. “A man will leave his father and mother”: God intends that both the man and the woman are of age to establish a home that is independent of their parents and are free to marry (Not unlawfully divorced, not still married to another). Note: It is in keeping with the fourth commandment to seek the blessing of one’s parents on the marriage.
3. “be united to his wife, and they will become one flesh”: The two will be welded together by a public, lifelong commitment to be faithful to one another until death separates them. Commitment is the glue of marriage.
What is the purpose of marriage?
By God’s design marriage has three purposes:
1. Genesis 2:18-24:Suitable companionship.
* They were created to need each other.
* They were created to meet each other’s need.
1. She is soft where he is rough.
2. She is emotional where he is logical.
3. He is strong where she is weak.
* In perfection they met those needs perfectly.
2. Genesis 2:24c and 1 Corinthians 7:3-4: Sexual happiness
* Sex is a gift of God to be enjoyed in the context of the committed love of marriage.
* Sex is giving as much as it is receiving.
3. Genesis 1:28 and Malachi 2:15: Children
* Children are a blessing (Psalm 127 & 128)
* Children are an asset (Psalm 127 & 128)
* Children are a responsibility given by God.
Does God allow a Christian to get a divorce?
God hates divorce (Malachi 2:16). However, God will allow a Christian to divorce if his or her spouse has destroyed the essence of marriage. A marriage is not destroyed unless one of the partners destroys its essence. This is important to keep in mind, especially when a marriage is falling far short of God’s intended purpose. God will allow one partner to divorce the other if the other has already destroyed the essence of marriage. But God will not allow a divorce just because the marriage is falling short of its intended purpose.
Matthew 19:3-9: Divorce us allowed if your partner has committed adultery.
1 Corinthians 7:12-16: Divorce is allowed if your partner refuses to “cleave” by deserting you in the marriage.
For a happy marriage and to help overcoming trouble in marriage God gives:
1. Forgiveness: Ephesians 4:32 and John 3:16: Forgiveness is the key to a happy marriage.
2. His word to guide you on your proper role as man or woman: Ephesians 5:22-33:
A. Verse 25: Husbands are to sacrifice everything for the welfare of their wives as Christ did for the church.
B. Verse 22: As the church submits to her loving Savior, so also the wife should submit to then husband.
Note: Both men and women have equal value before God. However, they have different roles. Men are to be the men God intended them to be. Women are to be the women God intended them to be. In Christian marriage and the Christian church we will want to reflect the proper roles of men and women (See 1 Timothy 2:11-13).
Note: Christ earns the submission of the church through his love and sacrifice (1 John 4:19). Husbands are never to demand submission but are to earn it through their own sacrifice.
Note: The church knows that she is to submit to Christ whether she feels like it or not. So also, the wife is to submit to the husband whether she likes it or not.
Note: If he tells her to sin she must obey the higher authority (God) and refuse.
Note: Husbands are to study the passages about husbands. And wives are to study the passages about wives. When he is being the man he is supposed to be, it makes it easy for her to submit and vice versa.
3. Strength to endure difficult times: 1 Peter 4:12-19; 1 Peter 5:7-11: Suffering as a Christian in a difficult marriage is not different from all Christian suffering. God promises to be with us and to give us the power and joy that comes from doing the right thing.
4. Hebrews 10:23-25: We have the encouragement of our Christian friends to bolster us when struggling.
A marriage in Christ is a beautiful triangular relationship. It is healthy as long as Christ is at the center. The closer we get to Christ, the closer we will get to one another.
Homework: Read 1 Corinthians 13 (the entire chapter). Then be ready to tell how you would answer a friend who said she was divorcing her husband because she didn’t love him anymore.
