---
weight: 2
slug: basic-bible-doctrine-class-2
title:  Lesson 4 The Life, Death, And Resurrection Of Jesus Christ
author: Mrs. Chris
kecheng: Basic Bible Doctrine Class
---

Lesson 4 The Life, Death, And Resurrection Of Jesus Christ
LESSON FOUR
THE LIFE, DEATH, AND RESURRECTION
OF JESUS CHRIST
What books of the Bible record Jesus’ life?
                     Who?                  His Audience?
MATTHEW
MARK
LUKE
JOHN
Each of these four author’s had their own specific backgrounds, perspectives, and specific audiences in mind when they wrote. If we keep this in mind as we read them, it will clear up any alleged discrepancies we might notice.
What is the basic story of Christ’s life?
1.Christ’s Birth According to Prophecy
Matthew 1: Why would it be important for Matthew to start with a genealogy for his audience?
In verse 22 notice the first of 35 Old Testament quotes found in Matthew.
Luke 2:1-20: The most expanded account we have of Jesus’ birth.
Compare Luke 2:4 with Micah 5:2. Notice how every prophecy was fulfilled?
2.Christ’s Childhood
Luke 2:41-52: The only account we have from Jesus’ early years. Why might God only preserve one account and not many?
Look at verse 48 and 49. Then contrast Mary’s comment to Jesus with Jesus’ reply. Did Jesus understand his mission?
Verse 52 summarizes Jesus’ life from age 12 to 30.
3.Preparations for Christ’s Ministry
Matthew3:1-4:11 John the Baptist was the fulfillment of prophecy from Isaiah 40:3.
Jesus’ baptism was the beginning of his public life. God had him start by publicly identifying with sinners in: A) their need to be baptized and B) their struggle against the temptation of the devil.
Notice how God the Father at the baptism showed that Jesus pleased him and how Jesus perfectly avoided sinning when tempted. He lived the perfect life we never could. He lived it in our place.
4.Jesus’ Public Ministry (It lasted three years and covered only the regions of Judea, Samaria and Galilee.)
Mark 1:14-15: Jesus’ ministry was primarily a teaching and preaching of the good news of salvation from sin.
Mark 3:13-19: During his three-year ministry Jesus diligently trained twelve men to carry on with the preaching of the good news of salvation. They would be equipped because they would have: A) been with Christ, B) witnessed his resurrection and C) be filled with his Spirit who would clarify Christ’s message through them.
Luke 7:18-23: Jesus did many wonderful miracles during his ministry. These miracles A) marked him as the promised Savior (Is. 29:18-19), B) showed his power to ultimately destroy all evil and C) helped people of his generation.
Note: The Jewish leaders of Jesus’ day were thoroughly self-righteous. They didn’t think they needed a Savior from sin but a Savior from a Roman rule. They were threatened by Jesus’ popularity with the masses. Many of the masses wanted an earthly Savior like that of the leaders. But there were those who knew their own sin, their need for forgiveness and the promises about the suffering Savior. These people saw Jesus for who he was, believed in him and were saved.
5.Holy Week: the Last Week of Jesus’ Life
Sunday: Triumphal entry into Jerusalem. Matthew 21:1-11)
Monday: Jesus cleanses the temple. (Matthew 21:10-17)
Tuesday: Jesus teaches openly. (Matthew 21:23-24:51)
Wednesday Jesus rests. (No gospel record)
Thursday: Jesus institutes the Lord’s Supper. (Matthew 26:17-30)
Friday: Jesus is tried, crucified and buried. (Matthew 27:1-61)
Saturday: Pilate sends guards to the tomb. (Matthew 27:62-66)
Sunday: Jesus rises from the dead. (Matthew 28)
Note: Forty days Jesus met with his disciples and showed them how his life, death and resurrection fulfilled all the prophecies about the coming Messiah (Savior) for the world. He then instructed them to teach this life-changing message to all the world. Here we are today, talking about the same Savior!
HOMEWORK: Read Luke’s account of the crucifixion and resurrection in Luke 23:1-24:53 and be ready to answer questions from these passages.
