---
weight: 3
slug: basic-bible-doctrine-class-3
title:  Lesson 5 A Close Look At God
author: Mrs. Chris
kecheng: Basic Bible Doctrine Class
---

Lesson 5 A Close Look At God
LESSON FIVE
A CLOSE LOOK AT GOD
Throughout Old Testament history God had promised that some day he would send a Savior. Jesus Christ, who some two thousand years ago, lived, died, and rose again, was and is, the Savior God promised. But who or what is he? Is he a man? Is he an angel? Is he God?
As Jesus’ apostles set out to tell the world that their Savior from sin had come, they were met with these same questions. So throughout their writings they answered them.
Who was Jesus?
Hebrews 1:1-14: The writer to the Hebrews wanted his readers to know Jesus was above the angels. Look at verses 7-14. Jesus was not an angel!
John 1:1 John wrote his gospel late in the first century after Christ. His goal was to clarify for his readers who Jesus actually was and for what purpose he came. John affirmed Jesus’ deity. Jesus is God!
John 1:14: Jesus was fully human. John says, “He became flesh.” Many other scriptures testify of Christ’s humanity. They show that he was hungry and ate, grew up, cried, felt pain, grew tired and slept. (Matthew 4:2, John 19:28, Mark 4:38, John 11:35, Matthew 26 and 27) Jesus was fully human!
Acts 1:10-11: Jesus is still fully human and will return with his glorified body on the last day.
How could Jesus be fully human and God at the same time?
The Bible offers no explanation but simply presents the facts. How Christ could be both human and Divine is best answered by Deuteronomy 29:29.
If Jesus is God, then who is the father?
John 20:17: Jesus called the Father, God. The Father is God!
How could Jesus and the Father both be God?
The Bible offers no explanation but simply presents the facts. How both Jesus and the Father can be God is a mystery. See Deuteronomy 29:29.
If Jesus and the Father are God, then who is the Holy Spirit?
Acts 1:4-9 He is the Spirit that Jesus promised to send after he ascended. His purpose would be to point all people to Jesus their Savior.
Acts 2:1-4: The Holy Spirit came with special power on the day of the Jewish feast of Pentecost. (This happened ten days after Jesus’ ascension.)
Acts 5:1-11: Peter told Ananias that he lied to the Holy Spirit. A few verses later he
repeated the accusation but says that Ananais lied to God. The Holy Spirit is God!
How could Jesus, the Father and the Holy Spirit be God?
The Bible offers no explanation but simply presents the facts. How all three could be God is a mystery. See Deuteronomy 29:29.
Are there three Gods?
Deuteronomy 6:4: No, there is only one God!
Matthew 28:19-20: God’s name includes all three persons: Father, Son and Holy Spirit. (See also 2 Corinthians 13:14)
THERE IS ONE GOD
BUT THREE PERSONS!
We reflect our faith in the God of the Bible every Sunday in our worship services!
Apostles’ Creed (100 AD)
I believe in God, the Father almighty, maker of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the virgin Mary,
suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried. He descended into hell. The third day he rose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. From there he will come to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit, the holy Christian Church, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and the life everlasting. Amen.
The Nicene Creed (325-380 AD)
We believe in one God, the Father, the Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth, of all that is, seen and unseen.
We believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, Eternally begotten of the Father. God from God, Light from Light, true God from true God, begotten, not made, of one being with the Father. Through him all things were made. For us and for our salvation, he came down from heaven, was incarnate of the Holy Spirit and the virgin Mary,
and became fully human. For our sake he was crucified under Pontius Pilate. He suffered death and was buried. On the third day he rose again in accordance with the Scriptures. He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of the Father. He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead, and his kingdom will have no end.
We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life, who proceeds from the Father and the Son, who in unity with the Father and the Son is worshipped and glorified, who has spoken through the prophets. We believe in one holy Christian and apostolic Church. We acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins. We look for the resurrection of the dead and the life of the world to come. Amen.
Can we worship, love and praise a God we can’t comprehend?
Psalm 100: Yes, when we consider the gift of life he has given us!
Acts 14:16-17 Yes, when we consider all the ways he blesses us.
Revelation 7:9-17: Yes, when we consider all he has done to save us and the heaven he promises us!
HOMEWORK:
If someone says to you that no one can be sure he is going to heaven, how would you answer? (See
1 John 5:13 and John 20:30-31)
Be prepared to discuss your answer!
