---
weight: 4
slug: basic-bible-doctrine-class-4
title:  Lesson 6 The Holy Spirit And His Work
author: Mrs. Chris
kecheng: Basic Bible Doctrine Class
---

Lesson 6 The Holy Spirit And His Work
LESSON SIX
THE HOLY SPIRIT AND HIS WORK
Who Is the Holy Spirit?
John 15:26-27: Jesus promised that after his ascension he would send the Holy Spirit to testify about him. The Holy Spirit is the Third Person of the trinity (see previous lesson).
What Is the Work of the Holy Spirit?
Acts 1:4-9: Jesus promised that the Holy Spirit would give them power to be effective witnesses for Christ. God was ready for the world to believe in the Savior, and the Holy Spirit would lead the church through his apostles.
Acts 2:1-41: When the Holy Spirit did come ten days after Christ’s ascension (on the day of the Jewish feast of Pentecost) the disciples were given:
* Clarity of mind to present God’s plan of salvation to all the people in Jerusalem.
* Boldness to speak about Jesus openly.
* A supernatural ability to speak in the language of the listeners so that they could hear
about Jesus.
From the day of Pentecost forward, people were and are saved by the Holy Spirit as he reaches them with the message of Salvation. The Holy Spirit uses the Word of God to save us.
THE WORK OF THE HOLY SPIRIT IS TO GET THE MESSAGE OUT ABOUT THE COMPLETED WORK OF CHRIST. (I Peter 1:12)
Ephesians 2:1-3: By nature we are all spiritually dead and objects of God’s righteous wrath.
1 Corinthians 12:3: Without the Holy Spirit we cannot come to faith in Christ.
Romans 10:14-17: The Holy Spirit brings people to faith through the reading, teaching and preaching of his Word. (2 Timothy 3:14-16)
THE WORK OF THE HOLY SPIRIT IS TO BRING US TO FAITH THROUGH THE READING, TEACHING AND PREACHING OF HIS WORD.
Note: Even though the Holy Spirit gets the credit, he employs redeemed children of God to carry his message. Consider it a great privilege to be included!
Ephesians 2:8-10: After bringing us to faith, the Holy Spirit leads us into a life of good works and selflessness.
THE HOLY SPIRIT LEADS US INTO A LIFE OF GOOD WORKS.
1 Peter 1:23-2:3: Through the word of God the Holy Spirit makes us grow in our faith until we get to heaven.
THE HOLY SPIRIT KEEPS US GROWING IN THE FAITH UNTIL WE GET TO HEAVEN.
How can I get the most out of my Bible studies?
Studying the Scriptures is a necessary practice for believers. The Scriptures are God’s means of revealing himself and his ways to us (2 timothy 3:15).The Scriptures are God’s means for teaching us to be mature and productive adults (2 timothy 3:16). This short study is designed t give the basics of personal Bible study. I pray your own Bible study will be enhanced and refined by the time we are done.
I. Pick a place to study. (There are a variety of approaches: a whole Book, a Psalm, word
studies, Parables)
II. Read the passage through several times noting repeated words and unique phrases along
the way.
III. Check the context.
A. The immediate context.
B. The general context. (The Book, the genre of Scripture in which it is found, the
author, related Scriptures)
C. The historical context.
IV. Determine what the passage meant to the original reader. It can’t have a meaning today
which it did not have for the original readers. You might check a Bible Commentary
recommended by your pastor.
V. Determine how the original applies to you, the present-day reader.
A. To my personal life.
B. To my relationship with others.
C. To my relationship with God.
D. Ask what changes the passage warrants. Prayerfully agree to sincerely live the truth of
the passage.
E. Ask what the passage’s relationship is to Christ and his work. (Law or Gospel,
prophecy, fulfillment, etc.)
F. Make the truths you learn from the passage a prayer to God to help you grow in those
truths.
G. Joy down what you learned in a journal and return to it often to review or renew what
you learned.
HOMEWORK: Someone says to you, “we cannot b3 saved by simply believing in Christ. But we must also add to our faith a good attempt at living right. Otherwise, people would believe in Christ and then go out and live the way they pleased and sinfulness would grow!”
Read Titus 2:11-14 and formulate an answer for your friend. Be ready to discuss your answer in class.
