---
weight: 6
slug: basic-bible-doctrine-class-6
title:  Lesson 8 God’s Grace Given To Us Through Baptism
author: Mrs. Chris
kecheng: Basic Bible Doctrine Class
---

Lesson 8 God’s Grace Given To Us Through Baptism
LESSON EIGHT
GOD’S GRACE GIVEN TO US THROUGH BAPTISM
So far, we have learned that no one can believe on his own. Only God can make us alive in Christ (Ephesians 2:1-10). God, the Holy Spirit, makes us alive by giving us his grace. God’s grace is his forgiving love for undeserving sinners.
When Jesus came and told the world of God’s grace he also instituted two special church acts which would give his people concrete assurance of the forgiveness of sins. They are Baptism and the Lord’s Supper. We call these two sacred acts Sacraments. The word Sacrament means sacred act.
Without the commands and promises of Christ, these two sacraments would only be pious works of men to show their faith in the Savior. But since Christ has commanded that we use them in the church and has promised to give us forgiveness through them they are works of God and not works of men.
God gives us forgiveness of our sins through his word, when it is preached and when it is attached to these two sacraments. God gives us his grace through Word and Sacrament. Therefore, we call these his “Means of Grace.”
Note: We must keep in mind that baptism is a work of God and not of man. Otherwise, we stand to lose all the joy and comfort God wants us to get from our Baptism.
Where in the Bible does Christ command Baptism?
Matthew 28:19-20: Here Jesus says that our mission is to make disciples of all nations. In the original, baptizing and teaching are means by which people are “made disciples.” God’s grace comes through the Word preached and through the promise of forgiveness attached to Baptism.
Where in the Bible does it say that in Baptism God saves sinners?
1 Peter 3:18-22: In this inspired digression of the Apostle Peter’s, God affirms that he saves us from our sins through Baptism. Baptism gives to us the benefits of Christ’s death and resurrection, namely forgiveness.
(See Romans 4:25)
Acts 2:38: Peter promises the repentant Jews that they will receive forgiveness through Baptism.
Note: There are no New Testament references to Baptism where Baptism does not impart
some spiritual blessing. Every blessing is shown to be springing from God’s grace
through Baptism. (See Romans 6:1-4; Galatians 3:27; Acts 22:16; Titus 3:3-8)
What should my Baptism mean to me?
Baptism is all gospel and no law. Therefore, your baptism should assure you that:
A. Acts 2:38: Your sins are forgiven.
B. Acts 2:38: The Holy Spirit has come to live in you.
C. Romans 6:1-4: You have the power to say no to sin.
D. 1 Peter 3:18-22: You are saved from eternal death in hell.
Is everyone who is baptized automatically saved?
Mark 16:16: Those who reject the grace offered through baptism by their own unbelief are not saved.
Why does the Lutheran Church baptize infants?
Acts 2:38-39: For the same reason that the first believers had their children baptized. Through
baptism they were assure that God extended his grace also to their children. See also Acts 16:33. The burden of proof from these passages is on those who would want to exclude children, not include them.
A. Psalm 51:5 Our children are sinners from conception.
B. Ezekiel 18:20: Our children are accountable for their sinfulness.
C. 1 Peter 3:18-22: God promises forgiveness through the Sacrament.
D. Matthew 28:19: God does not limit the sacrament to any age group.
E. Since the sacrament is gospel and God works faith through his gospel, we trust that he can cause our children to believe through this Sacrament. The miracle of faith in children through Baptism is no more incredible than the miracle of faith in adults. (Ephesians 2:1-10)
F. Luke 18:15-17: God can work faith into the heart of little babies as well as adults. The
Greek word in this passage which is translated “babies” is only used of unborn children and infants.
Why do some churches not baptize infants?
They view baptism as a work of the individual. They call it an “outward sign of an inward change.” Since to them it is a work of the individual, only those who know about it and can ask for it will be baptized. This is taught nowhere in Scripture and came into practice during the 1600’s through the Anabaptists.
Did the early church baptize infants?
Absolutely, because the early church held that baptism was a means which God used to apply grace to the individual. Consider the following:
The church father, Origen, born 185 A.D., tells us the practice of baptizing children was handed down to them from the apostles.
Irenaeus (202 A.D.), who was a disciple of Polycarp, who was a disciple of the Apostle John, wrote: “Christ came to save all men by himself; all, I say, who through him are reborn into God: infants, little children boys, young men and old men.”
The great Augustine, born 353 A.D., said he never heard of anyone who accepted the Bible as God’s Word who also rejected infant baptism.
Numerous inscriptions on the graves in the catacombs, dating back to the very first centuries of Christianity, testify to the fact that the early Christians baptized their children. Here is one: “Aristus lived eight months. He was recently baptized.”
Does it matter how much water is used in baptism?
No! Scripture nowhere specifies an amount of water to be used. On some of the catacombs dating as far back as 165 A.D., there are pictures of baptism by pouring water over the head. It is not the water that has the power but the Word of God applied with water in the name of the Triune God.
Baptism is a wonderful gift from God. How God works through baptism is no less mysterious than the Trinity itself. He does not ask that we understand it, but only that we faithfully use his gift and enjoy its benefits throughout our entire lives.
HOMEWORK:
Multiple Choice. Place an X before the answer which is most correct.
1. A sacrament is a sacred act that was started
a. -------- by Jesus for the original disciples but isn’t very important today.
b. -------- by the early believers to show that they were different from unbelievers.
c. -------- by Jesus for believers to use until the end of the world.
2. The two sacraments are
a. -------- Baptism and the Lord’s Supper.
b. -------- prayer and God’s Word (the Bible).
c. -------- Baptism and God’s Word.
3. We should remember that Baptism is
a. -------- using water to symbolize the washing away of sins.
b. -------- special ”holy water” blessed in a church ceremony.
c. -------- water plus the Word of God, used according to God’s command.
4. The Lord Jesus commanded us to baptize
a. -------- by applying water in any manner, as long as we do so with God’s Word.
b. -------- by sprinkling or pouring water on the person at least three times.
c. -------- by immersing people completely so that the whole body is cleansed.
5. The Lord Jesus also commanded us to baptize
a. -------- all people old enough to confess their sins
b. -------- all people who are from Christian homes
c. -------- all people, regardless of age
6. One thing we should remember about infants who are baptized is that they
a. -------- cannot really believe in Jesus, since they are not old enough
b. -------- are not sinful yet but will need Baptism later on in life
c. -------- are included in Christ’s command, are sinful, and can believe in Jesus.
7. The idea that small can truly trust in Jesus their savior is
a. -------- something we cannot be sure about.
b. -------- clearly taught in the Bible and is a result of God’s power in the heart.
c. -------- impossible, since people must be able to understand before they can believe.
8. Baptism is
a. -------- only a sign or symbol that a person is now a believer.
b. -------- a means by which God forgives sins and works faith in the heart.
c. -------- a church ceremony that shows obedience and makes a person a church member.
9. If one rejects Baptism,
a. -------- this is a result of unbelief and results in condemnation.
b. -------- it doesn’t make much difference as long as you believe in Jesus.
c. -------- we don’t know what will happen to that person.
10. The difference between an older person and an infant Baptism is that
a. -------- an older person’s Baptism has deeper meaning because a baby doesn’t understand
what’s happening.
b. -------- an older person can be instructed before Baptism while an infant is first baptized,
then instructed.
c. -------- adult Baptism is commanded by God while infant Baptism isn’t.
