---
weight: 8
slug: basic-bible-doctrine-class-8
title:  Lesson 10
author: Mrs. Chris
kecheng: Basic Bible Doctrine Class
---

Lesson 10
Lesson 10
What does the Bible say about prayer?
Psalm 19:14: Prayer is a heart to heart talk between God and his people.
Isaiah 59:1-2: Prayer is a privilege that only Christians enjoy.
Galatians 3:26: Prayer is our response to God who has made us his dear children.
GOD’S SPEAKING TO US IN LOVE LEADS TO OUR
SPEAKING TO HIM IN LOVE
How should we pray?
1. John 15:16: We pray in Jesus’ name, that is, trusting in him as our personal Savior from the sin which separates us from God. (See also John 14:6)
2. 1 John 5:13-15: We pray that God’s will be done in our lives as well as in our circumstances.
3. Matthew 7:7-11: We pray trusting God will answer us is his own way and time.
Four Possible Answers:
1. Yes - - Exodus 32:7-14
2. No - - 2 Corinthians 12:7-10
3. Wait - - Malachi 4:1-6
4. Here is something better - - Job 42:10-13
What should we include in our prayers?
A ------------------------------ (we praise and worship him in joy)
C ------------------------------ (we admit and forsake sin in repentance)
T------------------------------- (we thank God for forgiveness and new life)
S------------------------------- (we offer both petitions and intercessions)
Petitions ---------------------------------------------------
Intercessions -----------------------------------------------
(We intercede for all men, great and small, friend and foe. See 1 Timothy 2:1, 2; Matthew 5:43-45)
What if I don’t know what to pray for?
Romans 8:26-27: We can pray from our heart and trust that the Holy Spirit will make the right requests to the Father in our behalf.
What if I feel too guilty to pray?
Romans 8:34: We can pray, confident that Jesus still pleads our case before the heavenly Father.
How often should I pray?
1 Thessalonians 5:17: We should pray continually throughout our days. Sometimes we pray short prayers as we go about our business. However, we should set aside time to speak to God just as we set aside time to be with our earthly loved ones. (Jesus often spent all night in a solitary place praying to his heavenly Father.)
THE LORD’S PRAYER
Jesus wanted his disciples and us to have a model prayer in order to give us the proper understanding of true prayer. The prayer he gave is called the Lord’s Prayer. It is found in Matthew 6:9-13 and Luke 11:1-4. It is printed on the following p0age with an brief explanation.
Great prayers in the Bible:
John 17 - - Jesus’ High Priestly Prayer
1 Kings 8:22-53 - - Solomon’s Prayer to dedicate the Temple
Daniel :1-17:-- Daniel’s prayer of repentance on behalf of God’s people
Habakuk - -The entire book is a prayer with God’s response.
Great People of Prayer:
Moses – Hannah – Samuel – David – Solomon - Daniel
THE AMPLIFIED LORD’S PRAYER
Our Father in heaven.
Our faith in Jesus Christ makes it possible for us to come to you as a child comes to its loving father, confident you love us and are willing and able to meet our needs.
Hallowed be your name.
Your name – all you have revealed about yourself – already is holy, but we are asking that all may stand in awe of your name and that we may honor you and your word with our lives.
Your kingdom come.
You rule in people’s hearts, bringing them to and keeping them in faith. We pray your kingdom may come to us and through us to others as we hear and share your good news.
Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Satan, the world, and our sinful flesh always try to thwart our plans. Prevent them from succeeding. Strengthen us through Word and sacrament that we may serve and obey you as do the angels in heaven.
Give us each day our daily bread.
We know and trust you will provide all we need each day. Help us to appreciate and be content with what you give and not to worry about the future, remembering your many promises.
Forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone who sins against us.
Although undeserving of your mercy, we know you forgive our sins because of Jesus’ sinless life and innocent death. As you have forgiven us, so we promise to be forgiving to others.
And lead us not into temptation.
May we never tempt you, nor fall for the temptations we face each day. Strengthen us by your Spirit through Word and sacrament that we may overcome and retain the victory that is ours in Christ.
But deliver us from evil.
We live in a world of sin, full of evil. Keep all evil away from us, or turn it for our good, and finally take us out of this evil world to yourself in heaven.
For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.
We close our prayers with “Amen”, the ancient word for “yes”. We say this because we know you hear and answer all our prayers simply because you are God, and our God because of Jesus Christ.
PRAYER HELPS:
1.Posture: Kneeling, folded hands, and bowed head can be helpful.
2.Place: Seeking a quiet place by yourself (as Jesus often did) and setting aside a definite time each day to pray there is of tremendous value in your personal devotional life.
3.Wording: Speak honestly and directly from the heart with ordinary vocabulary, strive to be
brief, but not hurried. (Written prayer books are helpful but need not take the
place of prayers we compose ourselves.) To aid concentration, pray out loud, even when alone.
4. Reminder: Prayer and Bible study go together! “Pray through” parts of Scripture, verse by verse, paragraph by paragraph.
Multiple Choice. Place an X before the answer which is most correct.
1.Our faith in the Lord Jesus
a. ------ gives us the confidence that we can overcome all troubles by ourselves.
b. ------ leads us to call on him in confidence and seek his power in our lives.
c. ------ lets us pray to God as long as we live good enough lives to deserve it.
2. If we wish our prayers to be heard, we are to pray
a. ------ as trusting children, knowing that our heavenly Father wants us to pray to him.
b. ------ out loud, since God doesn’t hear our thoughts, but only our words.
c. ------ for whatever we want, regardless of what the Bible says.
3. All of our prayers should be addressed to
a. ------ God alone, either the Father, Son, or Holy Spirit
b. ------ either God or the saints.
c. ------ God the Father, and him alone.
4.When God answers our prayers
a. ------ we can always be sure that the answer will be “Yes”.
b. ------ he will answer them in exactly the same time that we say he should.
c. ------ he does so in love for us, in his chosen time and way.
5. Our posture or bodily position in prayer is
a. ------ of no value and makes no difference to God.
b. ------ must be with folded hands and almost always in a kneeling position.
c. ------ not necessary but is helpful and can reflect what is in our hearts.
6. Prayers are best if they are
a. ------ long and repeated over and over again for emphasis.
b. ------ short and gotten out of the way quickly
c. ------ brief, but including all on our heart.
7. In our prayers we will include
a. ------ ourselves most of all and occasionally other Christians
b. ------ all people, including ourselves, except for our enemies.
c. ------ personal requests and also intercessions for other people, even our enemies.
8. Prayer for a Christian will always be tied closely together with
a. ------ Bible study, to seek and grow in the knowledge of God’s will.
b. ------ good works to give us the right to speak with God.
c. ------ fasting and bodily pain to bring us closer to God.
9. Well-balanced prayers of Christians will
a. ------ include praise and thanksgiving as well as petitions and intercessions.
b. ------ pray for earthly wealth as well as spiritual strength.
c. ------ ask God only for major things, not bothering God with little things.
10. To “pray in Jesus’ name”, a person must
a. ------ mention the name “Jesus” at the end of the prayer.
b. ------ be trusting in Jesus as Savior and thanking him for his work of redemption
c, ------ have earned the right to pray to God just as Jesus did.
