---
weight: 9
slug: basic-bible-doctrine-class-9
title:  Lesson 11 The Christian And Victorious Life
author: Mrs. Chris
kecheng: Basic Bible Doctrine Class
---

Lesson 11 The Christian And Victorious Life
LESSON ELEVEN
THE CHRISTIAN AND VICTORIOUS LIFE
JUSTIFICATION AND SANCTIFICATION
Romans 3:23, 24
Romans 4:4, 5	1. Justification refers to our ------------------------ just, holy or “not guilty” by God for the sake of Jesus and his work as Substitute.
Romans 6:11-14	2. Sanctification refers to our being ------------------------ from the unbelieving world to lead a God-pleasing life.
Romans 5:1	3. Justification is perfect and complete.
Romans 7:18-25	4. Sanctification is gradual and always incomplete in this life.
WHY CHRISTIANS WANT TO GROW IN SANCTIFICATION
1 Corinthians
10:31	1.---------------------------- is honored and glorified by our lives.
Psalm 1:1-3	2. ---------------------------- are blessed.
Galatians 6:2	3. ---------------------------- are helped and served.
Matthew 5:16	4. ---------------------------- are attracted to Jesus by our lives.
IMPORTANT NOTE: To avoid misunderstanding, remember that an “immature” Christian is still a Christian and by faith in Jesus fully justified. Also not that sanctification begins as soon as a person is justified. To be “declared holy” already involves being “set apart” for God. Finally, the path from “immature” to “mature” Christians is seldom smooth or without frequent setbacks. Even more mature Christians fall victim to worldly attitudes. What these diagrams do show is that God’s will and our desire is that we grow spiritually so that our holy standing with God expresses itself in holy living more and more throughout our lives. True faith wants to and will bear fruit!
HOW GOD HELPS CHRISTIANS IN THEIR LIFE
OF SANCTIFICATION
1 Peter 2:2
1 Corinthians:11-25	1. He urges us to use regularly his -------------------------- and ---------------------------- for spiritual food.
Hebrews 10:
10:24, 25	2. He urges us to --------------------------- regularly with our fellow Christians for mutual upbuilding.
1 Thessalonians
5:17	3. He urges us to ---------------------- regularly that his will be done in our lives.
1 John 1:8, 9	4. He urges us to daily ------------------------ our sins and seek his
----------------------------- which he gives through
------------------------------.
HOMEWORK:
Multiple Choice. Place an X before the answer which is most correct.
1. Believers have the victory over sin and will never be condemned for sins because
a. ------ God has too much love to condemn anyone to hell, no matter what.
b. ------ the victory of Christ over sin has been credited to them as a free gift.
c. ------ they do enough good works to make up for their sins.
2. The work of Jesus Christ as our Substitute and Sin-bearer
a. ------ gives us the chance to win eternal life by following his example.
b. ------ is completed and is applied to us personally as we trust in him personally.
c. ------ will be finished only when he returns to earth on the Last Day.
3. Christians, who are justified, still continue to commit sins because
a. ------ their sinful nature (the “old self”) still desires to disobey God.
b.------ they know that they are forgiven and that God no longer hates sin as before.
c. ------ perfection is not needed for heaven; so there’s no reason to try to do good.
4. Believing or trusting in Jesus as personal Savior from sin is
a.------ something that happened once and then may be forgotten in our lives.
b.------ an important part of gaining forgiveness, but not as important as obeying God.
c. ------ a constant, perpetual thing that keeps us justified day by day in God’s eyes.
5. When we say that believers are “sanctified” by God, we refer to the fact that they
a. ------ are made holy and will never commit sins again in their lives.
b. ------ become better than most people, so they can now go to heaven.
c. ------ are set apart by God to live for him out of gratitude for their salvation.
6. When we call Jesus our “Lord”, we mean he
a. ------ controls and rules our hearts and lives through his Word, the Bible.
b. ------ is more powerful than we are; so we have reason to be afraid of him.
c. ------ gives us clear commands that we must obey to have eternal life.
7. The ability or power to have victory over sin in our lives comes from
a. ------ a heart that has good intentions and tries on its own to obey God perfectly.
b. ------ Jesus Christ, who guides and empowers us with the Holy Spirit and his Word.
c. ------ strong human willpower and positive thinking that overcome all temptations.
8. Christian growth in holy living and sanctification is valuable because it
a.------ gives us the right to have heaven as good people.
b. ------ honors God, blesses ourselves, and brings blessings to others around us.
c. ------ shows others that we should be respected and honored as good people.
9. The written material for the next lesson is rather long, so please be sure and read through it before the next class period.
