---
weight: 1
slug: Preaching-Baumann-1
title:  Homiletics Syllabus 讲道学提纲
author: Pastor Baumann
kecheng: Preaching
---

Homiletics Syllabus 讲道学提纲
Homiletics Syllabusalt
Professor John Baumann

God has given the responsibility to call teachers, pastors, and preachers to the congregation, the people of God. If you are one to whom the congregation or her representatives have asked to speak the Word of God to them, you have been given an important trust. As the Lord says, Now it is required that those who have been given a trust must prove faithful (1 Corinthians 4:2).
This class is to help all speakers of the word to “prove faithful” and to give serious consideration to their thought and preparation for proclaiming God’s Word. Always remember, God’s people are precious treasures and anyone who speaks God’s Word wants to be well prepared for the task and must proclaim to them the truth of God’s Word.  Knowing that we are speaking to God’s people, it is trustworthy for us to use the abilities God has given us faithfully. This class will give you some tools to use your abilities to proclaim God’s Word well.
Section 1: The sermon is to have godly characteristics and purpose.
Section 2: The preacher needs to recognize their Biblical hermeneutic and decide what hermeneutic is best. The godly sermon will be based on Scripture, which is the Word of God.
Section 3: Analysis of the Biblical text on which we will preach prepares the speaker to better proclaim the Word and to reflect the Biblical goal of the text.
Section 4: We wish to develop the structure of our sermon to properly proclaim the text and to communicate to the people.
Section 5: There are primarily four “types” of sermons – topical, analytic, synthetic, and homily. Each has strengths and weaknesses. We are to choose the one to best communicate God’s Word.
Section 6:   The proclamation of God’s Word should not be left to the last minute but needs to be planned. After studying the text and letting the text suggest preaching values, we develop a basic outline and expand that outline.
Section 7: The development of the introduction and the conclusion for the sermon.
Section 8: Be aware that our writing and our speaking are two different talents. Work on the written style of the sermon will guide the spoken presentation.
Section 9: We live in an age of communication both written and spoken. We need to consider the talents that God has given us, and what a good presentation means and work to deliver our sermon using the abilities that God has given us.
Section 10: The choice of texts.

Section 11: Sermons for special occasions.
Section 12: Preaching based upon the historic church year.alt
Class Procedure
The instruction will work with the English speaking students . The instructor will give the final exam (preaching assignment) at the conclusion of the class.
Text And Notes
The course notes was prepared by Prof. John Baumann.
Course Length
The course will generally be done between 12-14 weeks or 18-24 hours of time.
