---
weight: 2
slug: Preaching-Baumann-2
title:  Lesson 1 （第一课）
author: Pastor Baumann
kecheng: Preaching
---

Lesson 1 （第一课）
                                         Focus 1 the Nature and purpose of the sermon.
A sermon is the spoken Word of God addressed to the spiritual needs of people, each who is precious to God. First, the modern preacher speaks what God has revealed to people in the Word. Second, the modern preacher speaks to God’s people to address their faith and their life.
·         See 1 Timothy 2:4 What is God’s goal in this verse?
·         See 2 Peter 1:20-21
·         Although we are not Old Testament prophets, what does this verse point out that is applicable to our sermons?
·         What is the difference between a sermon and a class lecture?
·         What is the difference between a sermon and using words to manipulate people?
God uses the foolishness of preaching to proclaim his salvation for us and his power. (1 Corinthians 1:21).
·         What is it about preaching which seems so foolish?
·         Why is the message of this text comforting to the preacher?
Our sermons are always meant to praise God and the son, Jesus, our Savior. As a preacher, the sermon work you do and the sermon that you finally present is a part of your praise of The Lord who saved you through Jesus Christ.
The sermon is one of the most important tasks a pastor can do. Why?
·         In many congregations you have the best opportunity to speak to the greatest number of people during the sermon.
·         The sermon is the main Bible study that many of our members will do.
·         The Word of God, on which the sermon is written, will impact people spiritually. (see Isaiah 55:11).
The preacher (truly all Christians are) is an ambassador for God (see 2 Corinthians 5:20; 1 Peter 4:11; )
The sermon must be scriptural.
The sermon must proclaim the pure word.
The sermon must be Christ centered.
The preacher must restrict his preaching to what the Bible says. We are not to get involved with meaningless talk.
The purposes of the Sermon.
To lead sinners to Jesus.
To help those who believe in Jesus to become more mature in Christ and their faith.
To fulfill the preachers twofold purposes just mentioned we:
Proclaim God’s Word in accord with God’s intent and purpose.
Distinguish properly between law and gospel.
Proclaim the whole council of God.
Relate the Word in specific and meaningful ways to the life of God’s people.
Preach clear, coherent, goal-oriented sermons.
God’s intent and purpose.
2Tim 3:16 (the purpose of the word.) List the purposes …
Distinguish properly between law and gospel.
What is wrong with a sermon that is all or mostly law?
What is the weakness with a sermon that is all or mostly Gospel?
We are to proclaim the whole counsel of God from all of Scripture, not just those parts we like the most. See John 8:31; Revelation 22:18-19; Matthew 28:20.
Do not leave anything out.
Use specific law and specific gospel.
Relate the Word to daily life.
Preach clear, coherent, goal-oriented sermons.
