---
weight: 4
slug: Preaching-Baumann-4
title:  Lesson 3（第三课）
author: Pastor Baumann
kecheng: Preaching
---

Lesson 3（第三课）
Analysis of the text is very important. Thorough analysis will prepare the preacher to write better sermons.
A way to think about a text is to consider the major and subordinate points.
Each text will have major points. As you first read through a text consider which are the major points that this text is bringing out, that the Holy Spirit is here stressing.
Also list the minor points that make up each major point.
Put each thought of the text on a separate line and leave space between each line.
John 3:16 (NIV)
a.  “For God
b.  so loved
c.  the world
d.  that he gave
e.  his one and only Son,
f.  that whoever believes in him
g.  shall not perish
h.  but have eternal life.
Decide which are the important points
We could ask such questions as:
a.Which thoughts are the major thoughts of this text?
b.Are all the truths of this text of equal importance?
The Subordinates
Which points are under which main point. This usually follows along as they are written.
John 3:16 (NIV)
a.  “For God
b.  so loved
c.  the world
d.  that he gave
e.  his one and only Son,
f.  that whoever believes in him
g.  shall not perish
h.  but have eternal life.
Consider, next Mark 2:1-12
One division might be as follows.
Mark 2:1-12
Jesus comes to Capernaum. (v1)
So many gathered that there was no room left in the house. (v2)
He preached the word to the people. (v2)
Four men brought a paralytic (v3)
Since they could not get him in to Jesus, because the crowd was too big.
They made a hole in the roof by digging through it. (4)
They lowered their friend down to Jesus.
When Jesus saw their faith, he said “Son, your sins are forgiven.”
Some teachers of the law thought that Jesus was blaspheming.
“Who can forgive sins but God alone?” (v7)
Jesus knew in his spirit
What they were thinking in their hearts
He said to them
Why are you thinking this way?
Which is easier to say to the paralytic
Your sins are forgiven, or
Get up, take your mat and walk?
But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgiven sins …
Take up your mat and go home.
The man rose and went home healed.
This amazed everyone.
They praised God
We have never seen anything like this before.
Consider Psalm 119:137-144
Psalm 119:137-144
Analysis of this text might be as follows:
The LORD is
Righteous (137)
His laws are right (137
His statutes are righteous 138
His statutes are trustworthy.
[Your Servant is]
My zeal for the LORD wears me out v139
My enemies ignore your words
Your promises have been completely tested.
Your servant loves them.
I am lowly and despised but I do not forget your precepts. (141)
[Summary]
Your righteousness is everlasting and your law is true (142)
Trouble comes to me, but your commands are my delight (143)
Your statutes are right.
Give me understanding that I may live.
The Propositional Statement
The theme is the guiding idea for the whole sermon. The propositional statement provides the goal of the sermon. “Careful formulation of the prepositional statement is of crucial importance.” [25]
“As you formulate the prepositional statement in your mind, the focus of your attention is on those truths which in your analysis you have identified as the major coordinates.” [27]
Guidelines for a propositional statement. [p. 27]
1) Make it positive, not negative.
2) Make it practical, suggesting the main point of the text.
3) Make it a statement rather than a question. [some people will disagree here and will use questions. Prefer to use statements, but if a good question comes to mind, that can be done.]
4) Formulate it so that it expresses the uniqueness of the text and identifies with the text. [Sometimes hard to do]
5) Incorporate the unique qualities of the text. [ “Incorporate the color of the text into it.” “Color” is being used in a figurative way.]
6) Do not attempt to make the propositional statement a theme. The theme follows.
Other factors which will influence your propositional statement.
*The primary focus of any propositional statement is “what does this text say to us?”
* Other factors do influence the statement which are very practical such as:
What do the people of our congregation need to hear from this text. While we can always say, “everything,” as we get to know our people, some points of God’s word will stand out. Such as if we know that some o four people are struggling with feeling hopeless and a text speaks about the hope of God for his people, we of course, will be able to focus on this text.
At times, a current event and the text we are studying will speak to each other. That connection is a very practical one to explore in our sermon and the propositional statement.
Brainstorming
Once you have formulated a propositional statement, an excellent way to proceed is to “brainstorm” with the text as the focus. I use this technique for sermon work a lot.
Brainstorming is to write down every idea and thought that comes to mind as you are studying a text. Those ideas will relate to your major and subordinate points.
Brainstorming may include:
·     Other texts of the Bible that come to mind as your are studying. Recently when studying “hopelessness” the text of the valley of dry bones in Ezekiel came to mind. Israel felt hopeless at that time and God had Ezekiel tell them about the valley of dry bones.
·     Answers to the question – how does this text speak to the people to whom I am addressing God’s Word?
·     How is this text practical?
·     What is going on in the world that shows exactly what God is bringing up in this text?
·     What specific law does this text contain?
·     What specific gospel does this text contain?
·     How does this text speak about justification and sanctification?
·     Does this text guide the believer to do anything for life and faith?
During brainstorming we apply the knowledge, talents, and experiences that God has given us to help proclamation of a text. We apply all that God has given us to help our listeners to better understand what the Lord is proclaiming.
Homework: Analyze these three texts by choosing primary and secondary points.
Please e-mail finished homework to me before the next session so I can look through your work before we talk about it. Thank you.

Psalm 23:1-4
1）The LORD is my shepherd, I shall not be in want.
2）He makes me lie down in green pastures,
he leads me beside quiet waters,
3 he restores my soul.
He guides me in paths of righteousness
for his name’s sake.
4Even though I walk
through the valley of the shadow of death,
I will fear no evil,
for you are with me;
your rod and your staff,
they comfort me.
Luke 8:22-25
22One day Jesus said to his disciples, “Let’s go over to the other side of the lake.” So they got into a boat and set out. 23As they sailed, he fell asleep. A squall came down on the lake, so that the boat was being swamped, and they were in great danger.
24The disciples went and woke him, saying, “Master, Master, we’re going to drown!”
He got up and rebuked the wind and the raging waters; the storm subsided, and all was calm. 25“Where is your faith?” he asked his disciples.
In fear and amazement they asked one another, “Who is this? He commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him.”
Romans 5:1-8 (NIV)
1Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, 2through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand. And we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. 3Not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings, because we know that suffering produces perseverance; 4perseverance, character; and character, hope. 5And hope does not disappoint us, because God has poured out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom he has given us.
6You see, at just the right time, when we were still powerless, Christ died for the ungodly. 7Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous man, though for a good man someone might possibly dare to die. 8But God demonstrates his own love for us in this: While we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
