---
weight: 6
slug: Preaching-Baumann-6
title:  Lesson 5（第五课）
author: Pastor Baumann
kecheng: Preaching
---

Lesson 5（第五课）

The Topical Sermon   
There are different types of sermons. Preachers of homiletics (the study of preaching) differ in their terminology. The following are distinctions we typically use.

 Topical sermons can require less study of the text. Yet, to do a topical sermon well requires good thought and organization. The preacher must study the topic throughout all of Scripture and present the truths of God’s Word to the people. Often, there is no one text, but a series texts that allow the topic to be explored. Topics include:
o      alt Repentance
o       Law and Gospel
o       Justification
o       Sanctification
o       Marriage
o       Love of God
o       Love of Neighbor
o       Living the Christian life.
o       Stewardship of money, talents.
o       Overcoming Fear
o       The Role of Emotions in our Christian Lives
Agree or disagree with the following statement:   A topical sermon is more practical than an expository sermon.
What are the strengths and weaknesses of topical preaching?
Textual or Expository
The text is central to the sermon
The work we have done so far in our study is focused on the analytic sermon.
·         Analytic sermons: The text is analyzed and a theme and parts are developed so that the preacher can tell his congregation about the text. This is the type of sermon that we have been speaking about most. This is spoken of as a “horizontal sermon” for the theme tells the hearer where the sermon is going and the parts unfold the sermon in a linear way.
·         Synthetic sermons: When a text has been analyzed, but its parts do not follow one after another, in a linear fashion, the parts must then be rearranged to make sense to the listener. A sermon that has had the parts rearranged to make sense is a “synthetic sermon.”
(see 2 Corinthians 5:18-21 and Jeremiah 31:31-34.)
2 Corinthians 5:18-21
The Ministry of Reconciliation
·         Given by God to us.
·         Communicated by God to us.

Jeremiah 31:31-34
The Superior Blessings of God’s New Covenant.
·         The knowledge it provides
·         The Pardon it provides
·         The New Life if provides.
Jeremiah 31:31-34
The Superior Blessings of God’s New Covenant.
·         Forgiveness for condemned souls.
·         Enlightenment for darkened minds
·         Direction for renewed hearts.
The Homily
A homily is a short sermon on the text.
It is considered the easiest of the sermon styles.
·         Less study of the text is carried out.
·         Less preparation time is done on the sermon.
 “A homily is in a sense a kind of running commentary on a text with application added at appropriate points along the way.”
[pg 62, “Preach the Gospel”]. A homily may seem to be easy to do, but it is considered one of the hardest sermons to present. A homily can easily decay into a talk without a point or an emotional appeal without a Biblical focus.   
Never allow this style of reaching to become an excuse for doing insufficient study of the text or preparing the sermon.
Other Types of sermons – these may be prepared as either topical, analytical, synthetic or as a homily.
Festival or special occasion Sermons
·         New Year
·         Christmas
·         Easter
·         Pentecost
·         Ascension
·         Funeral
·         Marriage
·         Baptism
Doctrinal Sermons
·         The 10 Commandments
·         Justification / Sanctification
·         Baptism
·         Lord’s Supper
·         God is Triune
·         Jesus is both true God and true Man.
·         The end Times
Narrative sermons (a sermon in which the pastor speaks as if they are the speaker, such as when the pastor presents the message as if he/she is Peter.
·         Noah telling the story of the flood
·         Abraham telling the account of the “sacrifice” of his son Isaac.
·         Joshua telling the account of the walls of Jericho.
·         Peter telling the account of the Transfiguration.
·         Important Notes
·         Stay in Character
·         Don’t over play the role.
·         Be careful which characters you use.
·         Express the emotions of the character.
·         Beware of speculation about what he or she thought and felt.

Beware, this type of sermon can begin to sound humorous, rather than on God’s Word.
·         A sermon based upon Christian Music.
·         Interactive sermons (This type of sermon is suitable for smaller congregations because it is a mixture of sermon and Bible Study. Beware, some members would feel very uncomfortable speaking in church, during the service.)
