---
weight: 0
slug: revelation-0
title: The Gates of Hell shall not Prevail F-Lesson6 chapter6
author: Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
kecheng: Revelation
---

 The Gates of Hell shall not Prevail F-Lesson6 chapter6

 打印	 Email
分类：启示录Revelation
作者：Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
点击数：1773

10UR030949  Click here to see the full notes with pictures.  



THE FOUR HORSEMEN OF THE APOCALYPSE (6:1-9)



VERSES 1-2 - The first Seal: The Rider on the White Horse



I watched as the Lamb opened the first of the seven seals.







Then I heard one of the four living creatures say in a voice like thunder,

“Come!”  2 I looked, and there before me was a white horse! Its rider

held a bow, and he was given a crown, and he rode out as a

conqueror bent on conquest.







*******          

The rider is on a white horse.  White is the symbol of -------------------.  He has a bow.  He wears a crown.  The rider on the white horse is riding out to ------------------.  The rider on the white horse is a symbol of ---------------.



VERSES 3-4 - THE SECOND SEAL: The Rider on the Red Horse



3 When the Lamb opened the second seal, I heard the second living           

creature say, “Come!”  4 Then another horse came out, a fiery red one.

Its rider was given power to take peace from the earth and to make

men slay each other. To him was given a large sword.

 ******

The rider is on a red horse.  Red is a symbol of ------------,  ------------, and --------.  This rider has a ----------------.  He is given the power to take peace from the earth and to make people ------------  each other. When there’s no peace on earth, then you have ---------.  The rider on the red horse is a symbol of ------------s and rumors of -------.  





VERSES 5-6 - The Third Seal: The Rider on the Black Horse

5 When the Lamb opened the third seal, I heard the third living             

creature say, “Come!” I looked, and there before me was a black horse!

Its rider was holding a pair of scales in his hand.  6 Then I heard what

sounded like a voice among the four living creatures, saying, “A quart

of wheat for a day’s wages, and three quarts of barley for a day’s

wages, and do not damage the oil and the wine!”



******



The rider is on a black horse.  He is holding a pair of scales (balances used to weigh things).  He says that a quart of wheat costs as much as you make for a day’s wages.  Three quarts of barley cost as much as you make for a day’s wages.  The Greek word translated “damage” literally means “adulterate” or “pollute”, i.e. adding a substance to the oil and the wine to make them stretch.



When the price of food goes sky high and you are tempted to water down wine (the staple beverage at that time) and oil (used in cooking), what situation might you be in?



Black, then, is the symbol of --------------- .





VERSES 7-8 - The Fourth Seal: The Rider on Pale (Green) Horse

7 When the Lamb opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth

living creature say, “Come!”  8 I looked, and there before me was a pale

horse! Its rider was named Death, and Hades was following close behind

him. They were given power over a fourth of the earth to kill by sword,

famine and plague, and by the wild beasts of the earth.



The Greek word translated “pale” is χλωρος, from which we get the English word “chlorophyll.”  To us it means “green.”  So we would call this “a -------------- horse.”  But the word χλωρος is the Greek word that doctors used to describe the color of a sick person.  So it is translated “pale.”



The rider’s name is “Death” and “Hades.”  They have power to kill people in most tragic ways - with swords (war), famine, plague, and ripped apart by wild animals.  The rider on the pale horse is a symbol of ------------.



 VERSES 9-11 - The Fifth Seal: The Souls Under the Altar

9 When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of

those who had been slain because of the word of God and the

testimony they had maintained.  10 They called out in a loud voice,

“How long, Sovereign Lord, holy and true, until you judge the

inhabitants of the earth and avenge our blood?”  11 Then each of

them was given a white robe, and they were told to wait a little

longer, until the number of their fellow servants and brothers who

were to be killed as they had been was completed.



 *****               

The fifth seal is Christian people in heaven who had been killed because they were Christians.  They ask the Lord how long it will be before God takes vengeance on those who killed them.  God will exact his revenge on

----------------   --------.  God says that it will be a little while longer, until other Christians have experienced the same thing these Christians had experienced.  When Christians are getting killed because of their Christian faith, you have a period of -----------------------.  

The fifth seal, then, is a symbol of ----------------------------.

6:12-17 - THE SIXTH SEAL



12 I watched as he opened the sixth seal. There was a great earthquake. The sun turned black like sackcloth made of goat hair, the whole moon turned blood red,  13 and the stars in the sky fell to earth, as late figs drop from a fig tree when shaken by a strong wind.  14 The sky receded like a scroll, rolling up, and every mountain and island was removed from its place.

15 Then the kings of the earth, the princes, the generals, the rich, the mighty, and every slave and every free man hid in caves and among the rocks of the mountains.  16 They called to the mountains and the rocks, ¡°Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb!  17 For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand?



The sixth seal tells of the following events:



       1. a great -------------------------------

       2.  sun turns ------------

       3.  moon turns --------

       4.  the heavenly bodies ----------- to the earth

       5.  the sky ---------   ----

       6.  the earth is -------------

       7.  the people of the earth are filled with --------- and -------------.



Now compare these events with the words of Jesus about his Second Coming on the Last Day in Matthew 24:29-30, with the words of Peter about the destruction of the world in 2 Peter 3:10, and with Peter’s words on the day of Pentecost as he quotes the prophet Joel in Acts 2:20





Matthew 24:29-31 29"Immediately after the distress of those days " 'the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light; the stars will fall from the sky, and the heavenly bodies will be shaken.' 30"At that time the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and all the nations of the earth will mourn. They will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky, with power and great glory. 31And he will send his angels with a loud trumpet call, and they will gather his elect from the four winds, from one end of the heavens to the other.



Acts 2:20-21  20The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the coming of the great and glorious day of the Lord. 21And everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.'







On the basis of what the rest of the Bible says, we can come to no other conclusion than that the sixth seal is a symbol of -----------------   ---------.



Let’s review:

 The first seal is: -------------------

The second seal is: ----------

The third seal is: ---------------

The fourth seal is: --------------

The fifth seal is: -------------------

The sixth seal is: -------------------

Does this sound remotely familiar to you?  Now read Matthew 24 & Luke 21
