---
weight: 11
slug: revelation-11
title:  The Gates of Hell Shall not Prevail K - Lesson 11 Chapter 13 vs. 11 till 14
author: Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
kecheng: Revelation
---

The Gates of Hell Shall not Prevail K - Lesson 11 Chapter 13 vs. 11 till 14
 打印	 Email
分类：启示录Revelation
作者：Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
点击数：1910
THE THIRD SIGHTING: THE BEAST FROM THE EARTH
VERSES 11-18
The Beast out of the Earth
Chap13-clip-image001

11 Then I saw another beast, coming out of the earth. He had two horns like a lamb,
but he spoke like a dragon. 12 He exercised all the authority of the first beast on his behalf, and made the earth and its inhabitants worship the first beast, whose fatal wound had been healed. 13 And he performed great and miraculous signs, even causing fire to come down from heaven to earth in full view of men. 14 Because of the signs he was given power to do on behalf of the first beast, he deceived the inhabitants of the earth. He ordered them to set up an image in honor of the beast who was wounded by the sword and yet lived. 15 He was given power to give breath to the image of the first beast, so that it could speak and cause all who refused to worship the image to be killed. 16 He also forced everyone, small and great, rich and poor, free and slave, to receive a mark on his right hand or on his forehead, 17 so that no one could buy or sell unless he had the mark, which is the name of the beast or the number of his name. 18 This calls for wisdom. If anyone has insight, let him calculate the number of the beast, for it is man's number. His number is 666.
Now John sees a beast coming out of the -----------. He doesn't look terrifying or scary. He looks like a ----------- but he speaks like a -----------. In the symbolism of Revelation a lamb is a symbol of ------------ and a dragon is the symbol of -------------. The dragon speaks against God. John 8:44 says, "44 You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your father's desire. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies."Jesus called the devil a --------- and the --------- of --------. Jesus speaks of the devil being a murderer and a liar from the beginning. That makes us think of the devil's first lie to Eve which was: "Did God really say, you must not eat...", in other words, if you want to live in heaven and be like God, then you can't really -B----------- everything that God says, which is still the Devil's greatest lie today. The beast out of the earth exercises the authority of the civil government and urges people to look to the civil governments of this world to solve the world's problems. The beast out of the earth performs counterfeit -M------------- (with power given to him from someone other than God), miracles like the one -E----------- did when fire came down from heaven and consumed the altar on Mr. Carmel, and the beast deceives many people. He continues to cooperate with civil government and aids the government in putting to death God's people.
The beast out of the earth causes all classes of people to receive a ---------- on their right hands or on their foreheads. Remember, a
Chap13-clip-image002mark or brand is a symbol of ---------------, just as in chapter 7 all of God's people got the Lord's seal or mark or brand on their foreheads. So when these people get the -M----- of the beast on them, it means they belong to him and to the -B------- out of the sea, the -C----- -G----------, and they can't even do something as simple as shop or sell, unless they belong to him. The mark is the name of the beast or the number of his name.
Most Christian scholars say that the beast out of the earth is the office of the-R-------- P--------------. And there is good reason for us to state that as well because in the following chapters the beast out of the sea is simply called "the beast" and the beast out of the earth is called "the false prophet." The Greek preposition "anti" doesn't mean "against," but it means "-I--------- -O--." In other words, "trying to take the place of." So, even though the AntiChrist will work against Christ and his people, his primary goal is to try to take the place of Christ on earth.
St. Paul talks about the AntiChrist most clearly in 2 Thessalonians 2:1-12. Let's read that text and list the 5 marks of the AntiChrist that Paul talks very pointedly about.

2 Thessalonians 2:1-12
The Man of Lawlessness
2 Concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our being gathered to him, we ask you, brothers, 2 not to become easily unsettled or alarmed by some prophecy, report or letter supposed to have come from us, saying that the day of the Lord has already come. 3 Don't let anyone deceive you in any way, for that day will not come until the rebellion occurs and the man of lawlessness is revealed, the man doomed to destruction. 4 He will oppose and will exalt himself over everything that is called God or is worshiped, so that he sets himself up in God's temple, proclaiming himself to be God.
5 Don't you remember that when I was with you I used to tell you these things? 6 And now you know what is holding him back, so that he may be revealed at the proper time. 7 For the secret power of lawlessness is already at work; but the one who now holds it back will continue to do so till he is taken out of the way. 8 And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will overthrow with the breath of his mouth and destroy by the splendor of his coming. 9 The coming of the lawless one will be in accordance with the work of Satan displayed in all kinds of counterfeit miracles, signs and wonders, 10 and in every sort of evil that deceives those who are perishing. They perish because they refused to love the truth and so be saved. 11 For this reason God sends them a powerful delusion so that they will believe the lie 12 and so that all will be condemned who have not believed the truth but have delighted in wickedness.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Now, put it all together. The AntiChrist, or the beast from the earth,
1. Is inside of the church (the temple of God)
2. Looks like he is Christlike, but he speaks the lies of the devil ("if you want to get to heaven, you have to do it yourself.")
3. He tries to take the place of Jesus and even puts himself and his proclamations above those of God.
4. He does counterfeit miracles.
5. He cooperates with civil government and actually exercises civil government in his dealings with the world.
6. He comes onto the earth sometime during the New Testament time period and remains until Judgment Day.
The only authority in the church on earth that fits this description is the -R---------- -P------------.

In the 1500's, after there had been a great "falling away" or "rebellion" against the Lord's message of salvation by grace through faith (and this falling away from the truth was led by the papacy), there was a revival, a rediscovery of the gospel by Martin Luther and other Reformers in Germany, Switzerland, etc. On the basis of these scripture texts these Reformers and other Christians in Europe identified the papacy as the AntiChrist.

We need to remember that as long as the means of grace (gospel in Word and sacrament) are administered, you will inevitably have true believers. Therefore, since there are baptized children of God in the Roman Catholic church, who in spite of false doctrines, personally cling to Christ and his merits for forgiveness and salvation, they bear the marks of a visible Christian church or as Paul put it "the temple of God." But as far as the teachings are concerned there has been a gross falling away from the truth of the Gospel; the doctrine that sinners are saved solely by grace through faith in Christ is officially damned (Canons 9,11,12, of the Council of Trent). Because of the false doctrines taught, there has been also a falling away from the faith; many simple souls have actually been led astray and were in turned lost.

As for the Pope, just like St. Paul said in II Thessalonians, he is "within" the church and has "exalted himself above all that is called God, or that is worshiped." He claims to be Christ's vicar on earth, and to have supremacy over all temporal power, and he certainly exercises supreme authority within his denomination.

When Pius XII was ordained on March 3, 1939, the following formula was used, as reported in the Chicago Tribune of March 12, 1939: "I bestow upon you the tiara adorned by three crowns; let it be known by you that you are the father of princes and kings, the director of the entire world, and the vicar of our Lord Jesus Christ, to whom only honor and glory in century and century is due. Amen." This clearly shows that the claims the Pope and papacy have made over the centuries are still current today. They still claim supremacy both in the Church and in the world.
The papacy...
Chap13-clip-image003
I Timothy 4:1-3 The Spirit clearly says that in later times some will abandon the faith and follow deceiving spirits and things taught by demons. 2 Such teachings come through hypocritical liars, whose consciences have been seared as with a hot iron. 3 They forbid people to marry and order them to abstain from certain foods, which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and who know the truth.

1. Appears to be Christlike, but speaks like the dragon, telling people that what Jesus did no the cross to take away their sins wasn't enough. They must still earn heaven themselves by their good deeds.
2. Is in the church.
3. Elevates his own decrees above the Word of God.
4. Works together with the civil governments of this world to try to solve the world's problems. Throughout history the papacy has also called upon civil authorities to imprison and burn those whom the Roman church had condemned as heretics (because these "heretics" taught that we are saved by God's grace alone through faith, and not by our deeds).
5. Has claimed the power of miralces

• it is quite clear that the beast out of the earth in Revelation 13 is the Roman Papacy and that no matter which Pope is in office, he is executing the power of the AntiChrist. There are very few in the Christian world who disagree on that. Keep your eyes and ears open during chapters 17-19. There's more to come!
But first we are told the number of the beast. It is ---------. What this number means, I don't know for sure. It says that this "calls for wisdom."
I think we should take this number the way we have taken all of the rest of the numbers of Revelation, and that is, symbolically. Here are some possibilities:1. -------- is the number of the church. ------- is 12 cut in two. Just as ------- is 7 cut in two and seven is the number of the covenant and 3 1/2 always is used to describe the -------- forces that are trying to destroy God's covenant promise with his people. In this case, 6 might refer then, to the forces trying to destroy the ---------- (12). Six appearing 3 times, the number of God, might refer to how the beast tries to take God's place in his attempt to destroy the -----------.

2. 6 is just shy of -------, the number of the covenant. It might refer to the fact that the beast tries to make a covenant with God but always comes up short and fails. The 6 three times would again refer to its attempt to replace God.

Despite the attempts of 2 beasts to destroy the church, civil government and the AntiChrist, in chapter 14 John again sees reassurance that THE GATES OF HELL WILL NOT OVERCOME THE CHURCH.
Martin Luther, probably more than any man before, pegged the Pope as the Antichrist. And there is good reason for it. He was involved and trapped in his lies about justification and saw Christ as an angry judge. So throughout Martin's life as he became more and more accustomed to reading the Scriptures, he became more and more suspicious of the Pope. In a debate that was held at Leipzig in July of 1519, we see these suspicions of Martin Luther come out in a letter written to Spalatin: He says, "I am studying the decrees of the popes for my debate, and (in your ear I speak of it) I know not whether the pope is the Antichrist himself or his apostle, so very miserably does he, in these decretals, corrupt and crucify Christ, that is, the truth. I am terribly pained that the people of Christ should be deceived like this under the guise of laws and the Christian name."

Luther's suspicions deepen in a letter written about a year later. He says, "I am so deeply disturbed that I almost stop doubting that the pope is the real Antichrist whom, according to popular opinion, the world is expecting, so greatly all he lives, does, speaks, and ordains agrees with this view. If the pope will not recall and condemn this bull and also punish its espousers, Doctor Eck and his associates, then no one should doubt that the pope is the enemy of God, the persecutor of Christ, the destroyer of Christendom, and the true Antichrist. For to date no one has ever heard anyone condemn the publicly confessed Christian faith as does this infernal, confounded bull."

The characteristics of the Antichrist are clearly painted for us in Scripture. This man would be a deceiver of many and would blatantly oppose the teachings of Christ. The Pope has been accused of being the Antichrist well before Martin Luther was around (aprox. 11th century) however, never was there a time in history, other than the 15th and 16th century, when it appeared as though Satan's forces had prevailed upon the church. Martin Luther, by God's grace, revealed this venomous snake by the power of God's Word. It was indeed a great set back for the Pope and Satan, but as usual, evil continued to triumph after its original set back. The cunning of the Antichrist now more than ever before is deceiving more People. But this is to be expected until the great Day of Judgment where Christ will at last bring his kingdom of darkness to fruition.
