---
weight: 12
slug: revelation-12
title:  The Gates of Hell Shall not Prevail L - Lesson 12 Chapter 14
author: Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
kecheng: Revelation
---

The Gates of Hell Shall not Prevail L - Lesson 12 Chapter 14
 打印	 Email
分类：启示录Revelation
作者：Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
点击数：1579
Our Lady of Guadalupe
Words of the Blessed Virgin spoken toChap14-clip-image001
Juan Diego December 9th and 12th 1531
Guadalupe, Mexico
"Know for certain that I am the perfect and perpetual Virgin Mary, Mother of the True God . . . here I will show and offer all my love, my compassion, my help and protection to the people. I am your merciful Mother, the Mother of all who love me, of those who cry tome, of those who have confidence in me. Here I will hear their weeping and their sorrows . . . their necessities and misfortunes . . . Listen and let it penetrate your heart . . . Do not be troubled or weighed down with grief. Do not fear any illness or vexation, anxiety or pain. Am I not here who am your Mother? Are you not under my shadow and protection? Am I not your fountain of life? Are you not in the folds of my mantle? In the crossing of my arms? Is there anything else you need?"
Closeup of the wound of the Chap14-clip-image002
stigmata on one of Padre Pio's
hands. He lost a large cup
of blood each day. Padre Pio bore
the wounds of Christ for fifty years!
Among his other gifts were perfume, bilocation, prophecy, Chap14-clip-image003conversion, reading of souls, and miraculous cures. People are still being cured through his intercession in ways that cannot be explained by medicine or science.
These and countless other stories from the Roman Catholic Church, remind us of Paul's warnings against counterfeit miracles, signs and wonders done within this visible church body to cause people to put their trust in someone/something other than Christ.
THE FOURTH SIGHTING: THE 144,000 WITH THE LAMB
(14:1-5)
VERSES 1-5 The Lamb and the 144,000
The Lamb and the 144,000Chap14-clip-image004
14 Then I looked, and there before me was the Lamb, standing on Mount Zion, and with him 144,000 who had his name and his Father's name written on their foreheads. 2 And I heard a sound from heaven like the roar of rushing waters and like a loud peal of thunder. The sound I heard was like that of harpists playing their harps. 3 And they sang a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders. No one could learn the song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth. 4 These are those who did not defile themselves with women, for they kept themselves pure. They follow the Lamb wherever he goes. They were purchased from among men and offered as firstfruits to God and the Lamb. 5 No lie was found in their mouths; they are blameless.
*********
Just as the great tribulations that Christians would have to live through on the earth (chapter 6) was followed by the scene of the 144,000 (all the people of God of all time) in heaven (chapter 7), so now the fearful picture of the damage done by the devil, civil government and the AntiChrist (chapter 13) is followed by a picture of the 144,000 safe with Christ (chapter 14) in heaven.
John sees Jesus on "Mt. Zion."  Mt. Zion is the hill on which the temple was built in Jerusalem.  And in the New Testament this is a symbolic way of talking about the --C--------------------.
All the people of God of all time are with him and they have Jesus' name and God the Father's name written on  their foreheads.  This means that they are amongst the --E-------------.  Verse 3 says they are together with the four living creatures and the elders.  So they are in ---H----------------.  John hears a sound like harpists playing harps and it is a loud sound.  The harpists are playing because the 144,000 are singing a new song.  Whenever the Bible talks about a new song, the subject of the song is God's saving work in Jesus to give us eternal life.  The only people who could learn the words to the song are the --E-------------, only the people who know and believe that Jesus is their ---S----------------.  The Roman church often says that "those who did not defile themselves with women" are the monks and priests.  But Paul reinforces what the Bible is teaching when he writes, "2 I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy. I promised you to one husband, to Christ, so that I might present you as a pure virgin to him" (II Corinthians 11:2).  Therefore, the biblical symbolism of virgins are those who have not defiled their bodies through following other -g-------- . See book of Hosea for further descriptions of spiritual harlotry.
The 144,000 - all those who have been redeemed from the earth - did not defile themselves with women (commit adultery) but remained pure. Instead of following other gods, "they follow the --L--------- wherever he goes." They are blameless, righteous in God's sight through Jesus.
THE FIFTH SIGHTING: THE THREE ANGELS (14:6-13)
The Three Angels Chap14-clip-image005
6 Then I saw another angel flying in midair, and he had the eternal gospel to proclaim to those who live on the earth-to every nation, tribe, language and people. 7 He said in a loud voice, "Fear God and give him glory, because
the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heavens, the earth, the sea and the springs of water." 8 A second angel followed and said, "Fallen! Fallen is Babylon the Great, which made all the nations drink the maddening wine of her adulteries." 9 A third angel followed them and said in a loud voice: "If anyone worships
the beast and his image and receives his mark on the forehead or on the hand, 10 he, too, will drink of the wine of God's fury, which has been poured full strength into the cup of his wrath. He will be tormented with burning sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb. 11 And the smoke of their torment rises for ever and ever. There is no rest day or night for those who worship the beast and his image, or for anyone who receives the mark of his name." 12 This calls for patient endurance on the part of the saints who obey God's commandments and remain faithful to Jesus. 13 Then I heard a voice from heaven say, "Write: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on." "Yes," says the Spirit, "they will rest from their labor, for their deeds will follow them."
***********

The first angel has the eternal --G---------- to preach. It is a reminder that, in spite of all the attacks on the church during the New Testament, the --G-------------- will always be preached until the end of time. Then the angel tells the people of the earth to -F------- God and worship him. The time for judgment has come. While the first angel preached the gospel, the second angel cries out the threats of the -L------- . He quotes Isaiah 21:9 where the prophet writes: "Babylon has fallen, has fallen." Babylon was the great enemy of the civil government of the people of God in the Old Testament. I believe this is a symbolic way to say that all the civil governments of the world that opposed the -C--------- have been -D--------------.
The message of the third angel is another message of doom and judgment. All who follow the --B-------- and worship and belong to him will also receive torment from God. But, for those who die in the Lord, there will be eternal -R---------.
THE SIXTH SIGHTING: THE HARVEST (14:14-20)
The Harvest of the Earth
Chap14-clip-image006

14 I looked, and there before me was a white cloud, and seated on the cloud was one "like a son of
man" with a crown of gold on hishead and a sharp sickle in his hand. 15 Then another angel came out of the temple and called in a loud voice to him who was sitting on the cloud, "Take your sickle and reap, because the time to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is ripe." 16 So he who was seated on the cloud swung his sickle over the earth, and the earth was harvested. 17 Another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle. 18 Still another angel, who had charge of the fire, came from the altar and called in a loud voice to him who had the sharp sickle, "Take your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of grapes from the earth's vine, because its grapes are ripe." 19 The angel swung his sickle on the earth, gathered its grapes and threw them into the great winepress of God's wrath. 20 They were trampled in the winepress outside the city, and blood flowed out of the press, rising as high as the horses' bridles for a distance of 1,600 stadia.
************
Jesus is described in the same terms as in chapter one - "one like a -S------- of -M------". He has a victory --C---------- on his head and a -S------------ in his hand. Obviously this is a reference to -J--------------- -D------. This refers to the time when Jesus will come to take his believers to -H------------. In Matthew's Gospel, Jesus said that when he returns he will send his --------------- to harvest the earth. And that's what verses 15-19 also say.
The grapes in this section are a symbol of --U------------------. They are destroyed outside of the city. The city is where the -C------------ is located. Their punishment is symbolized by a tremendous flood of -B------------ that flows out of them as they are squeezed in God's winepress, so much blood that it's as deep as the horse's necks for a distance of 1,600 stadia (a stadia is about 600 feet - 1 mile = 5,280 feet) or --------- miles, a symbol that tells us that the agony of hell is going to be unbelievable.
By the way, 1,600 stadia is 4 squared times 10 squared. 4 is the number of the ---------------. 10 is the number of ----------------- or finality. The number may mean that this is the final ------------------- of the whole ------------.
