---
weight: 2
slug: revelation-2
title: BIBLICAL PROPHECY
author: Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
kecheng: Revelation
---

Session II       Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer



Though many prophecies are given in plain literal language, others are given in more symbolic forms.  Today's discussion will entail types of prophecies.



Types of prophecy



Historical person
An event
A thing
Symbolic actions & Language


Historical Person



Many aspects of the life of King David are types of Christ, the true King.  Read the following Psalms and identify the fulfillment of the prophecy in Christ's life.



Psalm 22:1-2, 6-8, 15-18

"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, so far from the words of my groaning? 2 O my God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer, by night, and am not silent."

"6 But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by men and despised by the people.       7All who see me mock me; they hurl insults, shaking their heads: 8 "He trusts in the LORD; let the LORD rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him."

"15 My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth; you lay me in the dust of death. 16 Dogs have surrounded me; a band of evil men has encircled me, they have pierced my hands and my feet. 17 I can count all my bones; people stare and gloat over me. 18 They divide my garments among them and cast lots for my clothing."



1) What makes King David a Historical Person who is a "Type of Christ?"



Isaiah 52 & 53 (selected verses chosen)

The Suffering and Glory of the Servant

13 See, my servant will act wisely; he will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted. 14 Just as there were many who were appalled at him- his appearance was so disfigured beyond that of any man and his form marred beyond human likeness-

53 Who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the LORD been revealed? 2 He grew up before him like a tender shoot, and like a root out of dry ground. He had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him, nothing in his appearance that we should desire him. 3 He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows, and familiar with suffering. Like one from whom men hide their faces he was despised, and we esteemed him not.  4 Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows, yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. 5 But he was pierced for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. 6 We all, like sheep, have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own way; and the LORD has laid on him the iniquity of us all.  7 He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth; he was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is silent, so he did not open his mouth. 8 By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And who can speak of his descendants? For he was cut off from the land of the living; for the transgression of my people he was stricken. 9 He was assigned a grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his death, though he had done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mouth. 10 Yet it was the LORD's will to crush him and cause him to suffer, and though the LORD makes his life a guilt offering, he will see his offspring and prolong his days, and the will of the LORD will prosper in his hand. 11 After the suffering of his soul, he will see the light of life and be satisfied; by his knowledge my righteous servant will justify many, and he will bear their iniquities. 12 Therefore I will give him a portion among the great, and he will divide the spoils with the strong, because he poured out his life unto death, and was numbered with the transgressors. For he bore the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.



What's the difference between the Prophecy of King David in Psalm 22 and that of Isaiah 52-53?





Psalm 110 What event is this in Christ's life?


1 The LORD says to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet."

2 The LORD will extend your mighty scepter from Zion; you will rule in the midst of your enemies. 3 Your troops will be willing on your day of battle. Arrayed in holy majesty, from the womb of the dawn

you will receive the dew of your youth.  4 The LORD has sworn and will not change his mind: "You are a priest forever, in the order of Melchizedek."  5 The Lord is at your right hand; he will crush kings on the day of his wrath. 6 He will judge the nations, heaping up the dead and crushing the rulers of the whole earth. 7 He will drink from a brook beside the way; therefore he will lift up his head.

Melchizedek is a type of Christ, the true priest, even as David is a type of Christ, the true king.


Genesis 14:18-20

18 Then Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine. He was priest of God Most High, 19 and he blessed Abram, saying, "Blessed be Abram by God Most High, Creator of heaven and earth. 20 And blessed be God Most High, who delivered your enemies into your hand." Then Abram gave him a tenth of everything.


Hebrews 7:1-4

Melchizedek the Priest

7 This Melchizedek was king of Salem and priest of God Most High. He met Abraham returning from the defeat of the kings and blessed him, 2 and Abraham gave him a tenth of everything. First, his name means "king of righteousness"; then also, "king of Salem" means "king of peace." 3 Without father or mother, without genealogy, without beginning of days or end of life, like the Son of God he remains a priest forever.

4 Just think how great he was: Even the patriarch Abraham gave him a tenth of the plunder!


An Event



Hosea 11:1

God's Love for Israel

11 "When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son."



What event is this in Christ's life?  What event was this in the life of Israel?





Matthew 2:14-15

14 So he got up, took the child and his mother during the night and left for Egypt, 15 where he stayed until the death of Herod. And so was fulfilled what the Lord had said through the prophet: "Out of Egypt I called my son."



How important was it for Israel to see the Anointed One of God, the Christ in Old Testament Prophecies?  Read the following words of Jesus...



John 5:39-40 39 You diligently study the Scriptures because you think that by them you possess eternal life. These are the Scriptures that testify about me, 40 yet you refuse to come to me to have life.



Sometimes, more than one event is fulfilled through the prophecy.  For example, Isaiah prophesied delivery for Israel.  This prophecy was fulfilled in part by the return from the Babylonian Captivity.  However, it was only fulfilled completely by the coming of Christ.  In Matthew 24 Christ speaks of the fall of Jerusalem and the end of the world as related judgments of God without distinguishing between the two.



Symbolic language & Actions



Look at the symbolic prophetic action of Jeremiah 27:1-11

27 Early in the reign of Zedekiah son of Josiah king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from the LORD: 2 This is what the LORD said to me: "Make a yoke out of straps and crossbars and put it on your neck. 3 Then send word to the kings of Edom, Moab, Ammon, Tyre and Sidon through the envoys who have come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah king of Judah. 4 Give them a message for their masters and say, 'This is what the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, says: "Tell this to your masters: 5 With my great power and outstretched arm I made the earth and its people and the animals that are on it, and I give it to anyone I please. 6 Now I will hand all your countries over to my servant Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; I will make even the wild animals subject to him. 7 All nations will serve him and his son and his grandson until the time for his land comes; then many nations and great kings will subjugate him.

8 ""'If, however, any nation or kingdom will not serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon or bow its neck under his yoke, I will punish that nation with the sword, famine and plague, declares the LORD, until I destroy it by his hand. 9 So do not listen to your prophets, your diviners, your interpreters of dreams, your mediums or your sorcerers who tell you, 'You will not serve the king of Babylon.' 10 They prophesy lies to you that will only serve to remove you far from your lands; I will banish you and you will perish. 11 But if any nation will bow its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon and serve him, I will let that nation remain in its own land to till it and to live there, declares the LORD."'"



What was the symbolic action?



Hosea, chapters 1,3 (Selected verses)

Chapter 1

2 When the LORD began to speak through Hosea, the LORD said to him, "Go, take to yourself an adulterous wife and children of unfaithfulness, because the land is guilty of the vilest adultery in departing from the LORD." 3 So he married Gomer daughter of Diblaim, and she conceived and bore him a son.

4 Then the LORD said to Hosea, "Call him Jezreel, because I will soon punish the house of Jehu for the massacre at Jezreel, and I will put an end to the kingdom of Israel. 5 In that day I will break Israel's bow in the Valley of Jezreel." 6 Gomer conceived again and gave birth to a daughter. Then the LORD said to Hosea, "Call her Lo-Ruhamah, for I will no longer show love to the house of Israel, that I should at all forgive them. 7 Yet I will show love to the house of Judah; and I will save them-not by bow, sword or battle, or by horses and horsemen, but by the LORD their God."

8 After she had weaned Lo-Ruhamah, Gomer had another son. 9 Then the LORD said, "Call him Lo-Ammi, for you are not my people, and I am not your God.

Hosea's Reconciliation With His Wife

3 The LORD said to me, "Go, show your love to your wife again, though she is loved by another and is an adulteress. Love her as the LORD loves the Israelites, though they turn to other gods and love the sacred raisin cakes."

2 So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver and about a homer and a lethek of barley. 3 Then I told her, "You are to live with me many days; you must not be a prostitute or be intimate with any man, and I will live with you."

4 For the Israelites will live many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or sacred stones, without ephod or idol. 5 Afterward the Israelites will return and seek the LORD their God and David their king. They will come trembling to the LORD and to his blessings in the last days.



Identify the symbolic action used in this Prophecy of Hosea?



Jeremiah 19:1,10-11

This is what the LORD says: "Go and buy a clay jar from a potter. Take along some of the elders of the people and of the priests...

11 and say to them, 'This is what the LORD Almighty says: I will smash this nation and this city just as this potter's jar is smashed and cannot be repaired. They will bury the dead in Topheth until there is no more room.



Identify the symbolic actions of this prophecy from Jeremiah.



There are many prophecies that use symbolic language as well. This is especially common in the visions of Daniel, Ezekiel, Zechariah and John. One form of symbolic language is when an everyday object represents a spiritual reality. The candlesticks in Revelation, for instance, represent congregations. The beasts in Daniel's prophecy represent kingdoms.


Another form of symbolical language uses terms taken from Old Testament life to describe events in the New Testament or terms from earthly life to describe things in heaven. For example:The New Testament enemies of God's people are called Babylon after their Old Testament enemy. Heaven is described as Jerusalem, Zion, Paradise, or a Wedding feast.


It is important to note that truths which are taught in symbolic language in Scripture are also taught elsewhere in plain literal language.  This is absolutely vital to keep in mind because if some of the prophecies are a bit challenging for us in Revelation, we will look to the truth taught elsewhere in Scripture for support.



compare the following passages


Revelation 12:13-14 vs.                       Matthew 16:17, 18




文本框: 13 When the dragon saw that he had been hurled to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child.  14 The woman was given the two wings of a great eagle, so that she might fly to the place prepared for her in the desert, where she would be taken care of for a time, times and half a time, out of the serpent's reach.		文本框: 17 Jesus replied,

















The basic significance is this: The devil persists in his persecution of the church, and the church is given supernatural help to escape from the pursuing enemy.  Some have even suggested that the two wings represent the 2 sacraments that have been given to the church to enable this supernatural power, but one can't determine that with complete certainty.  However, look now at the clear words of Jesus in Matthew 16:18 and identify how one clears up the other.









"The Gates of Hell

Will Not

Overcome The Church!"



































A Bible Study on



THE BOOK OF REVELATION











by Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer































THE MESSAGE OF THE BOOK



A.  Presents the two pictures of Jesus found in the Bible.





1.  The suffering servant



2.  The conquering king





B.  Assures the believers that, even though their lives in this world will be difficult, finally they will have the victory.







1.  We must go through many hardships to enter the kingdom of God.




Acts 14:21-22 21 They preached the good news in that city and won a large number of disciples. Then they returned to Lystra, Iconium and Antioch, 22 strengthening the disciples and encouraging them to remain true to the faith. "We must go through many hardships to enter the kingdom of God," they said.







2.  The gates of hell will not overcome the church.




Matthew 16:18 18 And I tell you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overcome it.



THE AUTHOR





The Apostle John





THE PLACE OF WRITING



The island of Patmos, off the coast of Asia Minor, not far from Ephesus.







THE TIME OF WRITING



1.  during the last years of Nero in the mid 60's

2.  during the reign of Domitian in the early 90's.






DIFFERENT WAYS THE BOOK IS INTERPRETED





A.  Preterist - All the events portrayed in the book in symbolic terms had already taken place or were taking place when the book was written.





B.  Futuristic - All the events portrayed in the book in symbolic terms still lie in the future and they will happen just before the end of this present world.





C.  Historical - All of the events portrayed in the book in symbolic terms can be identified and dated.



- The Historical Interpretation is pure guesswork.





D.  Idealistic - All of the events portrayed in the book in symbolic terms will take place in the future (after the time John wrote the book, i.e. in the period of time from writing of the book until the end of time).  The identity of the symbols can be determined only if other parts of Scripture tell us what they mean or if the context of Revelation itself identifies the symbols. (In other words, no guessing!)





THE OUTLINE OF THE BOOK





Introduction: John's Vision of Jesus on the Island of Patmos (1:1-20)


I. The Seven Letters to the Seven Churches (2:1-3:22)

II. The Vision of the Seven Seals (4:1-8:6)

JJ. The Vision of the Seven Trumpets (8:7 - 11:19)

IV. The Vision of the Seven Sightings (12:1 - 15:8)

V. The Vision of the Seven Bowls (16:1-21)

VI.  The Victory of Christ over the AntiChrist (17:1-19:21)

VII. The Victory of Christ over Satan (20: - 22:7)


Conclusion: (22:8-21)
