---
weight: 3
slug: revelation-3
title: Introduction to the Bible study of Revelation part I
author: Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
kecheng: Revelation
---
 

This study of Prophecy today is intended to be a survey of biblical prophecy to aid us in our study of the book of Revelation.  This is a very important topic for study at the present time because of the great confusion that exists about prophecy today.  On the one hand, critics of the Bible deny the reality of prophecy today.  On the other hand, many people are weaving fanciful interpretation of prophecy out of their own imagination.  Therefore we need a thorough understanding of biblical prophecy to combat these distortions, as well as for the positive value which biblical prophecy has for our faith.

 

 

1. PRINCIPLES OF PROPHECY

 

 

What is a good biblical definition of the word "Prophet?"

 

 

- Wide sense

 

 

- Narrow sense

 

 

(teacher notes)

 

Types of Prophecy

 

Biblical prophecy occurs in a rich variety of styles and deals with many topics.
 

 

- Small matters

 

 

I Samuel 9:20 20 As for the donkeys you lost three days ago, do not worry about them; they have been found. And to whom is all the desire of Israel turned, if not to you and all your father's family?"

 

Matthew 17:27 27 "But so that we may not offend them, go to the lake and throw out your line. Take the first fish you catch; open its mouth and you will find a four-drachma coin. Take it and give it to them for my tax and yours."

 

Matthew 21:2 "Go to the village ahead of you, and at once you will find a donkey tied there, with her colt by her. Untie them and bring them to me.

 

Luke 22:8-10 "Go and make preparations for us to eat the Passover..., As you enter the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him to the house that he enters,"

 

 

- Large matters

 

† The flood account

 

† The destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD

 

† Jesus' death and resurrection

 

† The end of the world

 

Prophecy may cover short or long periods of time
 

(teacher notes)

 

Read the following...


Habakkuk 2:3 3 For the revelation awaits an appointed time; it speaks of the end and will not prove false.

Though it linger, wait for it; it will certainly come and will not delay.

 

 

2 Peter 3:3-10 3 First of all, you must understand that in the last days scoffers will come, scoffing and following their own evil desires. 4 They will say, "Where is this 'coming' he promised? Ever since our fathers died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation." 5 But they deliberately forget that long ago by God's word the heavens existed and the earth was formed out of water and by water. 6 By these waters also the world of that time was deluged and destroyed. 7 By the same word the present heavens and earth are reserved for fire, being kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men.

8 But do not forget this one thing, dear friends: With the Lord a day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like a day. 9 The Lord is not slow in keeping his promise, as some understand slowness. He is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance.

10 But the day of the Lord will come like a thief. The heavens will disappear with a roar; the elements will be destroyed by fire, and the earth and everything in it will be laid bare.

 

 

 

1) Why do some people scoff at the prophecy of Christ's return?

 

 

 

 

2) Why has God seemingly delayed the fulfillment of this prophecy?

 

 

 

Prophecy may be conditional or unconditional.
 

† Unconditional (teacher notes)

 

† Conditional (teacher notes)

 

Read the following passages and underline the conditions that were attached to these prophecies:

 

Jeremiah 18:7-10 7 If at any time I announce that a nation or kingdom is to be uprooted, torn down and destroyed, 8 and if that nation I warned repents of its evil, then I will relent and not inflict on it the disaster I had planned. 9 And if at another time I announce that a nation or kingdom is to be built up and planted, 10 and if it does evil in my sight and does not obey me, then I will reconsider the good I had intended to do for it.



Jeremiah 26:2-6, 12-15 2 "This is what the LORD says: Stand in the courtyard of the LORD's house and speak to all the people of the towns of Judah who come to worship in the house of the LORD. Tell them everything I command you; do not omit a word. 3 Perhaps they will listen and each will turn from his evil way. Then I will relent and not bring on them the disaster I was planning because of the evil they have done. 4 Say to them, 'This is what the LORD says: If you do not listen to me and follow my law, which I have set before you, 5 and if you do not listen to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I have sent to you again and again (though you have not listened), 6 then I will make this house like Shiloh and this city an object of cursing among all the nations of the earth.'"

12 Then Jeremiah said to all the officials and all the people: "The LORD sent me to prophesy against this house and this city all the things you have heard. 13 Now reform your ways and your actions and obey the LORD your God. Then the LORD will relent and not bring the disaster he has pronounced against you. 14 As for me, I am in your hands; do with me whatever you think is good and right. 15 Be assured, however, that if you put me to death, you will bring the guilt of innocent blood on yourselves and on this city and on those who live in it, for in truth the LORD has sent me to you to speak all these words in your hearing."


 

A change in conditions may affect the manner or time of fulfillment.
God had foretold the scattering of the tribes of Simeon and Levi as punishment for Simeon and Levi's cruelty



Read Genesis 49:5-7

5 "Simeon and Levi are brothers- their swords are weapons of violence.

6 Let me not enter their council, let me not join their assembly,

for they have killed men in their anger and hamstrung oxen as they pleased.

7 Cursed be their anger, so fierce, and their fury, so cruel!

I will scatter them in Jacob and disperse them in Israel.



But after the tribe of Levi stood up for Moses in the incident of the Golden calf, their scattering in Israel became a blessing, since they were scattered as priests to serve throughout Israel. The tribe of Simeon, however, simply disappeared within Judah.
 

 

Read II Chronicles 34:24-33 24 'This is what the LORD says: I am going to bring disaster on this place and its people-all the curses written in the book that has been read in the presence of the king of Judah. 25 Because they have forsaken me and burned incense to other gods and provoked me to anger by all that their hands have made, my anger will be poured out on this place and will not be quenched.' 26 Tell the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the LORD, 'This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says concerning the words you heard: 27 Because your heart was responsive and you humbled yourself before God when you heard what he spoke against this place and its people, and because you humbled yourself before me and tore your robes and wept in my presence, I have heard you, declares the LORD. 28 Now I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be buried in peace. Your eyes will not see all the disaster I am going to bring on this place and on those who live here.'"

So they took her answer back to the king.

29 Then the king called together all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. 30 He went up to the temple of the LORD with the men of Judah, the people of Jerusalem, the priests and the Levites-all the people from the least to the greatest. He read in their hearing all the words of the Book of the Covenant, which had been found in the temple of the LORD. 31 The king stood by his pillar and renewed the covenant in the presence of the LORD-to follow the LORD and keep his commands, regulations and decrees with all his heart and all his soul, and to obey the words of the covenant written in this book.

32 Then he had everyone in Jerusalem and Benjamin pledge themselves to it; the people of Jerusalem did this in accordance with the covenant of God, the God of their fathers.

33 Josiah removed all the detestable idols from all the territory belonging to the Israelites, and he had all who were present in Israel serve the LORD their God. As long as he lived, they did not fail to follow the LORD, the God of their fathers.

 

- Notice that the time of Judah's destruction was postponed by the reforms of the Kings - Hezekiah & Josiah.

 

 

Biblical prophecy occurred in many forms, both in literal and figurative language.
 

 

- Some prophecies were delivered as dreams or night visions.  Nebuchadnezzar's dream of the image, which was interpreted by Daniel (chapter 2), Jacob's dream of the ladder at Bethel (Genesis 28) and Joseph's dreams about his family (Genesis 37).

 

 

- Some prophecies were given in visions in which the prophet was in a trancelike state:

Balaam (Numbers 24:4,15,16); Paul (Acts 22:17); John (Revelation 1:10)

 

 

- Some prophets even prophesied against their own will:

Balaam, Saul (I Samuel 19) and Caiaphas (John 11:51)

 

 

Some prophecy was received by direct encounter with God or his messengers.
 

- Abraham received news of a son from the men who appeared to him (Genesis 18)

 

- Angels announced the birth of Jesus and John the Baptist

 

 

In some cases, we have no visible sign how the prophecies were given
 

 

The letters that were written to the churches contain many prophecies, yet these apostles just looked like ordinary men, writing or dictating a letter. But in all these various methods, the same principle is applied.
 

 

Read II Peter 1:19-21 19 And we have the word of the prophets made more certain, and you will do well to pay attention to it, as to a light shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. 20 Above all, you must understand that no prophecy of Scripture came about by the prophet's own interpretation. 21 For prophecy never had its origin in the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.

