---
weight: 4
slug: revelation-4
title:   The Gates of Hell Shall not Prevail B - Lesson 2 chapter 2
author: Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
kecheng: Revelation
---


 打印	 Email
分类：启示录Revelation
作者：Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
点击数：1976

PART I:


THE INTERPRETATION OF THE LETTERS


How the letters are understood by some:

- a prediction concerning the future of the church on earth


- a representation of seven successive ages of church history


We reject both of those opinions on the following basis:


1. The seven churches to which the letters are written are named in chapter 1. Chapter 1 says the entire book is addressed to these seven churches. (1:4)


2. The writing of the book is a real historical fact. We have the book today.


3. John’s experience on Patmos was an actual historical event.


4. The seven churches were located in real cities, listed in a definite geographical order.


5. In 1:19 Jesus told John that he would write about 2 things: 1. What is happening ----- , and 2. what will take place ---------. John’s vision of the future (what will take place later) doesn’t begin until chapter 4. So what we have in chapters 2 and 3 (the letters to the seven churches)must be the “what is -------” that Jesus talked about.


Therefore the only honest conclusion to draw is that:


these seven letters are --------- letters, written to ---------- churches, at a specific time in the early history of the Christian church, and the content of each letter pertains to and speaks to the situation in each individual church.


Congregation
The command to Write
Description of the Speaker
The Word of Commendation
The Word of Criticism
The Admonition
The Call to Hear
The Promise
Ephesus
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Smyrna
1
2
3
x
5
6
7
Pergamos
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Thyatira
1
2
3
4
5
7
6
Sardis
1
2
5
3
4
7
6
Philadelphia
1
2
3
x
5
7
6
Laodicea
1
2
x
4
5
7
6

Note that in a general way the seven letters consist of seven parts, and the arrangement of the letters reflects the general sevenfold pattern of the whole book.

THE SEVEN LETTERS TO THE SEVEN CHURCHES


image001-copy
image002


















THE LETTER TO EPHESUS (2:1-7)


VERSE 1

2 “To the angel of the church in Ephesus write:image005

These are the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands:

The letter is addressed to the “angel” or the “messenger” of the church in

Ephesus. That person would be the --------------. “Him who holds

the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands”

is ------------. He said, “These are my words.” The seven stars in his right

hand are a symbol of the -------------- and the seven golden lampstands

are a symbol of the --------------.


VERSES 2-3

2 I know your deeds, your hard work and your perseverance. I know that you cannot tolerate wicked men, that you have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and have found them false. 3 You have persevered and have endured hardships for my name, and have not grown weary.


Jesus’ words of commendation for the church in Ephesus:


- they have worked --------------


- they have rejected the ---------- ------------, they hold on to the -----------.


- they have suffered for the name of ------------ and have never grown tired of it.


I John 4:1 Dear friends, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world.


Acts 17:11 11 Now the Bereans were of more noble character than the Thessalonians, for they received the message with great eagerness and examined the Scriptures every day to see if what Paul said was true.


Jesus’ words of condemnation for the church of Ephesus:image007

VERSE 4


4 Yet I hold this against you: You have forsaken your first love.


Jesus’ criticism: “you have lost your first love” or better “you have lost the love

you had at first.”



What do you suppose Jesus is referring to here?



· When the Devil comes in to a church and convinces them to take the threats of

God’s law lightly, then the promises of the gospel quickly diminish and faith is always weakened as a result. The Law is to produce repentance in our hearts so that we may cling to the gospel of Jesus Christ and him alone for strength, forgiveness, and salvation.



VERSES 5-6


5 Remember the height from which you have fallen! Repent and do the things you did at first. If you do not repent, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place. 6 But you have this in your favor: You hate the practices of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.





Repentance has two parts:image010



1.



2.

"Change your course of direction"




Jesus’ admonition: Repent or I will remove your lampstand. The lampstand is their ------------------.




II Thessalonians 2:10-11 They perish because they refused to love the truth and so be saved. 11 For this reason God sends them a powerful delusion so that they will believe the lie 12 and so that all will be condemned who have not believed the truth but have delighted in wickedness.




According to Paul’s words in his second letter to the Thessalonians, why do people from within the church perish?




One other short message of commendation: “You hate the practice of the Nicolatians…”


Nicolatians:


- not much known, mentioned again in 2:15 in letter to Pergamum



- early church fathers say they were followers of Nicolas of Antioch, one of the seven Greek men chosen as a deacon in Jerusalem.



- Nicolatians taught that “since we are saved by grace and all of our sins are forgiven, then it really doesn’t matter how you live. You can live an immoral life, because your sins will be forgiven anyhow.



Acts 6:3-6 3 Brothers, choose seven men from among you who are known to be full of the Spirit and wisdom...5 This proposal pleased the whole group. They chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit; also Philip, Procorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolas from Antioch, a convert to Judaism. 6 They presented these men to the apostles, who prayed and laid their hands on them.



· Maybe Nicolas was once faithful but then later abandoned the faith and taught heresy???



VERSE 7image011

7 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give the right to eat from the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.



Jesus’ call to hear. It is identical in all seven letters. He claims that these words are

what the Spirit says. He also said these are his words (2:1), emphasizing the

unity of ---------------.




Jesus’ promise: whoever overcomes (remains true to Jesus) will receive the right to eat from the tree of life in the Paradise of God.




“Paradise” - a Persian word that means “---------”(take your kids to play) or “----------” (Creation)



- This is clearly a reference to the ----------- of ------- in the Garden of Eden, a

symbolic way of saying that whoever remains true to Jesus will receive --------------- ----------.




THE LETTER TO SMYRNA (2:8-11)


VERSE 8image013

To the Church in Smyrna

8 “To the angel of the church in Smyrna write:

These are the words of him who is the First and the Last, who died

and came to life again.






· Smyrna is about 35 miles northwest of Ephesus. Today it is known as

Izmir and has a population of over 350,000.








This verse includes the command to write and the description of Jesus,image017

again referring back to something he said about himself in chapter 1

(vs. 17-18) - he is the --------- and the ---------. He

was --------- and has ---------.





VERSES 9-10

9 I know your afflictions and your poverty—yet you are rich! I know the slander of those who say they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. 10 Do not be afraid of what you are about to suffer. I tell you, the devil will put some of you in prison to test you, and you will suffer persecution for ten days. Be faithful, even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown of life.



· There are no words of criticism for Smyrna. Only words of commendation. The people are poor, probably lower class people or Christians who had had their properties confiscated by the government. But Jesus reminds them that they are rich! They can also expect to suffer persecution for their faith. It will last 10 days.



Since the number 10 is a symbol of --------------- in Revelation, what might this mean that their persecution will last for 10 days?



Read the following passages to understand who is meant by “those who say they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.”


Romans 9:6-9 6 It is not as though God’s word had failed. For not all who are descended from Israel are Israel. 7 Nor because they are his descendants are they all Abraham’s children. On the contrary, “It is through Isaac that your offspring will be reckoned.” 8 In other words, it is not the natural children who are God’s children, but it is the children of the promise who are regarded as Abraham’s offspring. 9 For this was how the promise was stated: “At the appointed time I will return, and Sarah will have a son.”



Romans 2:28-29 28 A man is not a Jew if he is only one outwardly, nor is circumcision merely outward and physical. 29 No, a man is a Jew if he is one inwardly; and circumcision is circumcision of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the written code.



Romans 4:11-12 11 And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. So then, he is the father of all who believe but have not been circumcised, in order that righteousness might be credited to them. 12 And he is also the father of the circumcised who not only are circumcised but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.



Galatians 3:7 7 Understand, then, that those who believe are children of Abraham.



Galatians 6:14-16 14 May I never boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. 15 Neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything; what counts is a new creation. 16 Peace and mercy to all who follow this rule, even to the Israel of God.




So - “those who say they are Jews and are not” are Jews who can trace their ancestral blood-line to our forefather ------------------ and who claim to be ------------ but they really aren’t because they don’t --------------- like their father Abraham. They have rejected Jesus. The church in Smyrna had members who were Jews by race and converted to Christianity. Racial Jews from the Jewish synagogue in Smyrna were slandering these people, saying they had fallen away from the faith and were no longer real Jews. They claim to be the real Jews. But Jesus says, “No they aren’t the real Jews. The people God calls real Jews, the people God calls the real Israel are all those who ----------------- in --------------- as Lord and Savior. Those racial Jews in the Jewish synagogue are really a synagogue of ------------ because they reject Jesus.”



· For further support of this teaching read the following…



John 8:33-44 33 They answered him, “We are Abraham’s descendants and have never been slaves of anyone. How can you say that we shall be set free?”

34 Jesus replied, “I tell you the truth, everyone who sins is a slave to sin. 35 Now a slave has no permanent place in the family, but a son belongs to it forever. 36 So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed. 37 I know you are Abraham’s descendants. Yet you are ready to kill me, because you have no room for my word. 38 I am telling you what I have seen in the Father’s presence, and you do what you have heard from your father.”

39 “Abraham is our father,” they answered.

“If you were Abraham’s children,” said Jesus, “then you would do the things Abraham did. 40 As it is, you are determined to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. Abraham did not do such things. 41 You are doing the things your own father does.”

“We are not illegitimate children,” they protested. “The only Father we have is God himself.”

42 Jesus said to them, “If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and now am here. I have not come on my own; but he sent me. 43 Why is my language not clear to you? Because you are unable to hear what I say. 44 You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your father’s desire. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies.



· Then comes the promise: “Be faithful, even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown of life.” Jesus promises them the same thing he promised the Ephesians: eternal life in heaven.



VERSE 11

11 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes will not be hurt at all by the second death.



· To determine what the “Second death” means, let’s compare followingimage019

passages:


Revelation 20:14-15 14 Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. The

lake of fire is the second death. 15 If anyone’s name was not found written in the book

of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.


Matthew 25:41 41 “Then he will say to those on his left, ‘Depart from me,

you who are cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.





If the unbelievers are thrown into the lake of fire, and Revelation 20 says the lake of fire isimage020

the second death, then obviously the second death must be ------------. So, if those who

overcome won’t be hurt by the second death, then they obviously will go to -------------.











THE LETTER TO PERGAMUM (2:12-17)


VERSE 12

To the Church in Pergamum

12 “To the angel of the church in Pergamum write:

These are the words of him who has the sharp, double-edged sword.



Pergamum was about 65 miles northwest of Smyrna. There is the

command to write and then a reference to something Jesus said about

himself in chapter 1, namely that he is the one who has the sharp, double-edged sword coming out of his mouth. And the sword is a symbol of the ------------ ---- --------.

文本框:  






VERSE 13

13 I know where you live—where Satan has his throne. Yet you remain

true to my name. You did not renounce your faith in me, even in the

days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was put to death in your

city—where Satan lives.

This Painting is called the last prayer, notice the people hanging on the crosses



Words of commendation:


- They live where “Satan has his throne”


· The early church fathers say that Pergamum was the center of emperor worship. And this expression (where Satan has his throne) refers to the idolatry and emperor worship common to that city. Pergamum was a place where Satan was especially active and exercised a great deal of influence.


- the Christians in Pergamum were being persecuted for their faith, but they remained true to Jesus. One man was even killed because of his Christian witness.



Nero (64-68)- said to have killed Peter and Paul.


Domitian (81-96)- thought Christianity was atheistic. He had thousands of believers killed. He banished John to the Isle of Patmos.


Trajan (98-117)- He was the first to pass laws against Christianity. He had Ignatius burned at the stake. Emperor Trajan said "anyone who will deny being a Christian and actively proves it by adoring our gods must be forgiven on the basis of his repentance no matter how suspect his past".


Pius (137-161)- He killed Polycarp, disciple of John.


Marcus Aurelis (161-180)- He thought Christianity was an absurd superstition. He beheaded the great writer and defender of faith,


Justin Martyr.


Thracian(235-238) He was a brutal barbarian and commanded all Christian leaders to be killed.


Valerian (235-260) He killed Cyprian, bishop of Carthage.


Diocletian (284-305)- His was the last and most severe persecution. For ten years believers were hunted in caves and forests. They were burned at the stake, thrown to hungry lions and other beasts, and put to death by every torture that could be devised. An interesting fact: Diocletian's wife and daughter accepted Christ


文本框:  







The rein of terror stopped with Emperor Constantine.






The only place of refuge for Christians was a tunnel system dug by their hands. The system was called the catacombs and it stretched mile upon mile underneath the city of Rome. Only the Christians could find their way without getting lost. They lived their lives in a maze of tunnels where they worshiped God and buried their dead. Many bodies have been taken from the catacombs at the command of the Catholic Church. It was said that if a church contained the bones of saints it would be more powerful. The Pope took it upon himself to distribute the bones throughout the church for a price. We’ll talk about the teaching of the Antichrist later.



































· Many Christians died for their

Faith in the Coliseum in

Rome





Words of criticism:





VERSES 14-16

14 Nevertheless, I have a few things against you: You have people there who hold to the

teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to entice the Israelites to sin by eating food sacrificed to

idols and by committing sexual immorality. 15 Likewise you also have those who hold to the

teaching of the Nicolaitans. 16 Repent therefore! Otherwise, I will soon come to you and will

fight against them with the sword of my mouth.

Balaam prophecies over Israel





- they have people who hold to the teaching of Balaam


· Balaam’s name is derived from the word Baal. It means, “to conquer the people.” You will see the name Baal about 63 times in the Bible referring to the kind of pagan worship we will read about next. What is the doctrine of Balaam? Balaam was the unfaithful prophet of the Lord whom Balak, king of the Moabites, hired to curse the children of Israel in Numbers 22-24. When Balaam’s triple attempt to pronounce a curse upon Israel failed, he suggested to Balak that he might be able to bring about the destruction of Israel by seeking to involve the Israelites in the immoral and idolatrous Moabite worship (Numbers 25:1-18; 31:16).



Some members in the church of Pergamum didn’t think being ------------- -------------- was sinful. They also have people who follow the Nicolaitan teaching, which believed that since all of our sins are -----------------, it’s okay to live an ---------------- life.






Warning: Repent, or I will come and fight against them with the sword of my mouth. Remember what

the sword was a symbol of? The sword is a symbol of the ------------ ---- -------.



VERSE 17

17 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give some of the hidden manna. I will also give him a white stone with a new name written on it, known only to him who receives it.


The call to hear and then the promise. He who has an ---------- let him -------- what the Spirit --------.



Romans 10:17 17 Consequently, faith comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through the word of Christ.



“I will give some hidden manna” -


Read John 6:35-58 to determine what Jesus means by this statement

35 Then Jesus declared, “I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never go hungry, and he who believes in me will never be thirsty. 36 But as I told you, you have seen me and still you do not believe. 37 All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away. 38 For I have come down from heaven not to do my will but to do the will of him who sent me. 39 And this is the will of him who sent me, that I shall lose none of all that he has given me, but raise them up at the last day. 40 For my Father’s will is that everyone who looks to the Son and believes in him shall have eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.”

41 At this the Jews began to grumble about him because he said, “I am the bread that came down from heaven.” 42 They said, “Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How can he now say, ‘I came down from heaven’?”

43 “Stop grumbling among yourselves,” Jesus answered. 44 “No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up at the last day. 45 It is written in the Prophets: ‘They will all be taught by God.’ Everyone who listens to the Father and learns from him comes to me. 46 No one has seen the Father except the one who is from God; only he has seen the Father. 47 I tell you the truth, he who believes has everlasting life. 48 I am the bread of life. 49 Your forefathers ate the manna in the desert, yet they died. 50 But here is the bread that comes down from heaven, which a man may eat and not die. 51 I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. This bread is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.”

52 Then the Jews began to argue sharply among themselves, “How can this man give us his flesh to eat?”

53 Jesus said to them, “I tell you the truth, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. 54 Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. 55 For my flesh is real food and my blood is real drink. 56 Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood remains in me, and I in him. 57 Just as the living Father sent me and I live because of the Father, so the one who feeds on me will live because of me. 58 This is the bread that came down from heaven. Your forefathers ate manna and died, but he who feeds on this bread will live forever.”


What did Jesus clearly mean by this “hidden manna” he speaks of?


- “I will also give him a white stone” -


In the ancient Greek law courts the juries used white and black stones or pebbles. In fact the word translated “stone” (ψῆφον) also means “vote” in classical Greek. A container was passed around, and if a juror thought the defendant was guilty, he put a black stone in the container. If he thought the defendant was innocent, he put a white stone in the container.


- When Jesus says that at the end of time he will give a white stone to those who overcome (remain faithful to him), he is simply saying that he will judge them not guilty, but innocent.


- The white stone has a new name written on it -


If the old name was sinner, what is the new name? ------------------


If the old name was death, what is the new name? ------------------


If the old name was hostile, what is the new name? -----------------


Galatians 3:26-29 26 You are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus, 27 for all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. 28 There is neither Jew nor Greek, slave nor free, male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. 29 If you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham’s seed, and heirs according to the promise.


What makes you a child of Abraham and a true Israelite?


文本框:  THE LETTER TO THYATIRA (2:18-29)


VERSE 18

18 “To the angel of the church in Thyatira write:

These are the words of the Son of God, whose eyes are like blazing fire

and whose feet are like burnished bronze.


The command to write followed by another reference to something about

Jesus from chapter 1. His eyes are like ---------- ------------ because

he ---------- and --------- all things, and his feet are like ------------ -----------. The Scriptures use Jesus’ feet as a symbol of his ---------------.


VERSE 19

19 I know your deeds, your love and faith, your service and perseverance, and that you are now doing more than you did at first.


Words of commendation: Their lives of S------------------ion as a church has greatly increased because they are more a -- -- -- -- -- in their faith than they were at first.

VERSES 20-25

20 Nevertheless, I have this against you: You tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess. By her teaching she misleads my servants into sexual immorality and the eating of food sacrificed to idols. 21 I have given her time to repent of her immorality, but she is unwilling. 22 So I will cast her on a bed of suffering, and I will make those who commit adultery with her suffer intensely, unless they repent of her ways. 23 I will strike her children dead. Then all the churches will know that I am he who searches hearts and minds, and I will repay each of you according to your deeds. 24 Now I say to the rest of you in Thyatira, to you who do not hold to her teaching and have not learned Satan’s so-called deep secrets (I will not impose any other burden on you): 25 Only hold on to what you have until I come.

文本框:  文本框:  










Jezebel worships in the church
Jezebel meets her death




The upper or northern part was still called Israel, but the lower or southern part was named Judah. Jezebel’s daughter married the king of Judah and imported the same paganism. Because of what Jezebel did the northern tribes became the lost tribes and were scattered by the Assyrians. Because of what the daughter did the southern tribes spent 70 years in Babylonian captivity. Thyatira was being infected by this same kind of disease.
Jezebel was a real person. Jezebel was married off to the wicked king of Israel, Ahab. According to law a king was to marry a virgin woman of Israel. Jezebel was a pagan priestess and temple prostitute. When she came to Israel her paganism came with her. She constructed temples of Baal where children sacrifices and temple prostitution of young girls took place. Those people were child molesters and murderers. When the prophet Elijah took a sword and slew all 450 of them he was doing what King Ahab should have done. At this time Israel was divided into two nations.









This congregation also had a problem with the two things that seemed to plague the early Christian congregations: 1. ----------------- ---------------, sins committed by adultery and fornication and 2. ---------------, worshiping false gods. “Jezebel” - her real name? We don’t know. Maybe Jesus calls her that because the church is acting a lot like the Jezebel we know in the Old Testament. Jezebel and her husband, King ---------, introduced --------- worship with sins of ------------- immorality into Israel. The congregation in Thyatira gets criticized for tolerating this behavior in the congregation. Jesus says, “I am he who ------------ hearts and minds” - a reference to his O -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --. Jesus encourages those who are faithful to him in the church to not follow the ways of “Jezebel,” but rather continue to be faithful to him and persevere until the end.


VERSES 26-29

26 To him who overcomes and does my will to the end, I will give authority over the nations—

27 ‘He will rule them with an iron scepter;

he will dash them to pieces like pottery’—

just as I have received authority from my Father. 28 I will also give him the morning star. 29 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.



The promise: To him who overcomes, I will give ---------------- over the nations. Then he quotes Psalm 2:9, which refers to Jesus’ authority over the nations of the world.


Jesus makes it very clear in these words that his servants who remain faithful to him and his word shall rule with him over the nations that rebel and reject him. How and when will this take place?



This idea of reigning with Christ is not foreign to Scripture. In I Peter 2:5, Christians are called a “royal,” or reigning priesthood by St. Peter, and John himself in the first chapter of Revelation says that the Savior has made us kings (1:6).



“I will also give him the morning star” -



This is one of those difficult passages that we can’t be certain of its meaning. In the last chapter of Revelation (22:16) the Savior calls himself “the bright morning star.” What do you think he means by this statement?
