---
weight: 5
slug: revelation-5
title:   Part II.THE VISION OF THE SEVEN SEALS
author: Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
kecheng: Revelation
---


 打印	 Email
分类：启示录Revelation
作者：Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
点击数：1722

Part II.

THE VISION OF THE SEVEN SEALS (4:1-8:6)


JOHN'S VISION OF GOD (4:1-11)


VERSES (1-2)

The Throne in Heaven

image001

4 After this I looked, and there before me was a door standing open in heaven. And the voice I hadfirst heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, "Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this." 2 At once I was in the Spirit, and there before me was a throne in heaven with someone sitting on it.





"after this" - the "this" is reference to John's 7 letters to the -------------------.



The "voice I had first heard" refers to the voice of ---------------.



"At once I was in the Spirit" or as we saw in chapter one, "in spirit." Read about Paul's similar experience...



2 Corinthians 12:2-4

2 I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether it was in the body or out of the body I do not know-God knows. 3 And I know that this man-whether in the body or apart from the body I do not know, but God knows- 4 was caught up to paradise. He heard inexpressible things, things that man is not permitted to tell.



"third heaven" =



What is the time frame meant by "what must take place after this"?





John sees a throne in heaven with someone sitting on it. This is --------------.



VERSES 3-6a

image004

3 And the one who sat there had the appearance of jasper and carnelian. A rainbow, resembling anemerald, encircled the throne. 4 Surrounding the throne were twenty-four other thrones, and seated on them were twenty-four elders. They were dressed in white and had crowns of gold on their heads. 5 From the throne came flashes of lightning, rumblings and peals of thunder. Before the throne, seven lamps were blazing. These are the seven spirits of God. 6 Also before the throne there was what looked like a sea of glass, clear as crystal.





John saw God in his glory, and the impression it makes on him is that of the flashing of precious stones (jasper and carnelian).


He saw a green rainbow encircling the throne - a full-circle rainbow!



Around the throne he saw 24 elders sitting on 24 thrones. To understand this read...



Matthew 19:27-28

27 Peter answered him, "We have left everything to follow you! What then will there be for us?" 28 Jesus said to them, "I tell you the truth, at the renewal of all things, when the Son of Man sits on his glorious throne, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.



12 of the elders on 12 of the thrones that John saw were the ----------- ----------------.



The other 12 elders on the thrones were the ------------- ------------------.



The first 12 are a symbol of the -------- ------------------- ------------.



The second 12 are a symbol of the -------- -------------------- ------------.



They are all dressed in ---------------. They have ----------- ------------- on their heads.



Those two symbols means --------------------- & ----------------.



In front of the throne of God seven lamps of fire were blazing. These are a symbol of



------------------------------------------------------------- (Isaiah 11:2)



Also in front of the throne was what looked like a sea of glass. This is a symbol of --------------------.





VERSES 6b-8

image005

6 ...In the center, around the throne, were four living creatures, and they were covered with eyes, in front and in back. 7 The first living creature was like a lion, the second was like an ox, the third had a face like a man, the fourth was like a flying eagle. 8 Each of the four living creatures had six wings and was covered with eyes all around, even under his wings. Day and night they never stop saying: "Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was, and is, and is to come."





"In the center, around the throne" - the throne of God was in the center of the scene. Around the throne in a larger circle were arranged the 24 thrones on which the 24 elders sat. Between the throne of God and the elders stood the four living creatures. Read the following passages to discover what these 4 "living creatures" are...

Ezekiel 1:4,5,10 & 10:20


4 I looked, and I saw a windstorm coming out of the north-an immense cloud with flashing lightning and surrounded by brilliant light. The center of the fire looked like glowing metal, 5 and in the fire was what looked like four living creatures. In appearance their form was that of a man, 10 Their faces looked like this: Each of the four had the face of a man, and on the right side each had the face of a lion, and on the left the face of an ox; each also had the face of an eagle.


10:20 20 These were the living creatures I had seen beneath the God of Israel by the Kebar River, and I realized that they were cherubim.



Each creature had six wings and was covered with ----------.



The "eyes" symbolize -------------- and ---------------------.



The four living creatures are -------------------------.



VERSES 9-11

9 Whenever the living creatures give glory, honor and thanks to him who sits on the throne and who lives for ever and ever, 10 the twenty-four elders fall down before him who sits on the throne, and

image008

worship him who lives for ever and ever. They lay their crowns before the throne and say:

11 "You are worthy, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they were created and have their being."





In 4:4 we were told that the elders were wearing golden crowns. Now they remove them and cast them before the throne of God.


This symbolism means ------------------------------------------------------
