---
weight: 6
slug: revelation-6
title:  The Gates of Hell shall not Prevail C-Lesson3 chapter3
author: Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
kecheng: Revelation
---


 打印	 Email
分类：启示录Revelation
作者：Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
点击数：1918

10UR030949  Click here to see the full notes with pictures.

 THE LETTER TO SARDIS (3:1-6)





Sardis, which was about 30 miles southeast of Thyatira, today is an

insignificant village.  But at one time it was a great and powerful city,

the capital of the ancient kingdom of Lydia.







VERSE 1

“To the angel of the church in Sardis write:

These are the words of him who holds the seven spirits of God

and the seven stars. I know your deeds; you have a reputation of being alive, but you are dead.















As usual, Jesus describes himself by referring to something he had said in chapter

one.  The seven spirits of God are a reference to the -----------   ----------- .

The seven stars are the---------------------------- Jesus says that outwardly

the congregation in Sardis looks ------------, but really they are ----------.







VERSES 2-3

2 Wake up! Strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your deeds complete in the sight of my God.  3 Remember, therefore, what you have received and heard; obey it, and repent. But if you do not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what time I will come to you.



He tells this congregation to remember what they -------------- and what they ----------.  What they had received and heard would be the ------------------.  Now follow the line of thought.  The congregation in Sardis…

Was doing deeds, but---------- The deeds were not complete in God’s sight, so ----------- They should remember

what they had heard.





What do you think was the problem of this church?





·        A warning for the church today: Many churches today have an outward look to them that may look healthy to the outsider, but is rotten on the inside because the teachings of Jesus were set aside for different agendas.  The church is not to overlook the ministry of the sick or helping the poor.  However, if helping those in need comes at the expense of remaining indifferent towards the Words of God, then you can see how that warning of Jesus would still apply to some today.   



If they do not wake up and repent, how will Jesus come to them?  Like a  ----------------

Read Matthew 24:43-44 and identify what Jesus means:





Matthew 24:43-44 43 But understand this: If the owner of the house had known at what time of night the thief was coming, he would have kept watch and would not have let his house be broken into.  44 So you also must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him.







VERSE 4

4 Yet you have a few people in Sardis who have not soiled their clothes. They will walk with me, dressed in white, for they are worthy.







Read the following…                                                                                                  



Isaiah 1:18 18 “Come now, let us reason together,”

says the LORD.

“Though your sins are like scarlet,

they shall be as white as snow;

though they are red as crimson,

they shall be like wool.





Isaiah 61:10 For he has clothed me with garments of salvation

and arrayed me in a robe of righteousness,





Revelation 7:14  “These are they who have come out of the great tribulation;

they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.





The fact that these Christians have not “soiled their clothes” and will “walk with” Jesus, and are “dressed in white” is a symbol that means that these people are those who have -------------------------------.





What makes them worthy to walk with Jesus dressed in white?





VERSES 5-6

5 He who overcomes will, like them, be dressed in white. I will never blot out his name from the book of life, but will acknowledge his name before my Father and his angels.  6 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.





Whoever overcomes will also be “dressed in white”.  Their names will “never be erased from the book of life.”  Guess how many times “the book of life” is mentioned in Revelation.  ------------- (3:5;13:8; 17:8; 20:12, 15; 21:27; 22:19) The statement that Jesus will “never erase their names out of the book of life” is a figurative way of teaching the doctrine of ---------------------.





Both Paul and Moses referred to a “book” which contained the names of

God’s elect.





Philippians 4:3 3 Yes, and I ask you, loyal yokefellow, help these

women who have contended at my side in the cause of the gospel, along

with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers, whose names are in

the book of life.





Exodus 32:31-33 31 So Moses went back to the LORD and said, “Oh,

what a great sin these people have committed! They have made themselves gods of gold.  32 But now, please forgive their sin—but if not, then blot me out of the book you have written.”

33 The LORD replied to Moses, “Whoever has sinned against me I will blot out of my book.





·        This book, which contains the elect of God, those who will finally come to everlasting life through faith in the Lord Jesus, do so because God has chosen and predestined them for this.  Ephesians 1:3-6 states, “3 Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ.  4 For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love  5 he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will—  6 to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the One he loves.”  When our Savior states that he will not erase their names out of the book of life, he emphasizes the certainty of the salvation that God has prepared for his elect.  The thought is the same as when he said that no one would be able to pluck his sheep out of his hand (John 10:28), and when he implied that the elect can not be deceived (Matthew 24:24).





Finally, Jesus promise to those who are faithful unto the end is that he will ------------ them before his Father in heaven and his --------------.   To “confess” is the opposite of to “Deny.”  Peter ----------- Christ by saying that he did not know him.  Christ promises in his Word to acknowledge those who acknowledge him.  In a human way of speaking, we may say that on the Day of Judgment Jesus will introduce the faithful believers to his Father and the angels as his friends, his brothers and his sisters.  The Letter closes with the familiar call to -----------  what  the -----------  says to the churches.



THE LETTER TO PHILADELPHIA (3:7-13)







Philadelphia is 30 miles southeast of Sardis.  Early in the first century

it had been destroyed by an earthquake.  Today the name of the city is

Alasehir.





VERSE 7

7 “To the angel of the church in Philadelphia write:  These are

the words of him who is holy and true, who holds the key of

David. What he opens no one can shut, and what he shuts no

one can open.







Jesus describes himself as the one “who has the key of David.  What he

opens, no one can shut; and what he shuts, no one can open.”  This is a

direct reference to a prophecy recorded from Isaiah…



Isaiah 22:15, 20, 22

“15 This is what the Lord, the LORD Almighty, says: ‘Go, say to this steward, to

Shebna, who is in charge of the palace:’”  20 “In that day I will summon my servant,

Eliakim son of Hilkiah.”  “ 22 I will place on his shoulder the key to the house of

David; what he opens no one can shut, and what he shuts no one can open.”



A man by the name of ---------------- held the position of treasurer, or

steward, over the royal household of Jerusalem.  He was a proud man,

interested in glorifying himself.  God said he would depose --------------

and give the position of treasurer to ---------------------.  In this context the “keys to the house of David” are the keys to the Royal  ---------------------.  With that context used as figurative language, Jesus says he holds the key of David.  The royal treasure that Jesus has to give to us is --------------------------.  He holds the key to it.



In all the other letters Jesus described himself by referring back to something he said in chapter one.  The word “key” is mentioned by Jesus (1:18) in reference to ----------------  and ---------------.   What do you think Jesus is figuratively saying when he says he holds the “key of David”?  He holds the key to--------------- and to ----------.   































VERSES 8-10



Verses 8-10





 8 I know your deeds. See, I have placed before you an open door that

no one can shut. I know that you have little strength, yet you have kept

my word and have not denied my name.  9 I will make those who are

of the synagogue of Satan, who claim to be Jews though they are not,

but are liars—I will make them come and fall down at your feet and

acknowledge that I have loved you.  10 Since you have kept my

command to endure patiently, I will also keep you from the hour of

trial that is going to come upon the whole world to test those who live

on the earth.





“I know that you have little strength” - do you think that this means a lack of numbers or a lack of spiritual strength? Why or why not?





“See, I have placed before you an open door” –



I Corinthians 16:8-9 “8 But I will stay on at Ephesus until Pentecost,  9 because a great door for effective work has opened to me, and there are many who oppose me.”





 “those who are of the synagogue of Satan, who claim to be Jews though they are not, but are liars” - Look back at your notes from chapter 2:9 and identify meaning of phrase:



These are racial --------------- who had left the Old Testament faith of Judaism and therefore didn’t accept Jesus

as the Messiah.   





Was Christianity a new religion founded by Jesus or by the Apostle Paul?  Explain.





Consider what Jesus told the Jews about Moses in John 5:46 “46 If you believed Moses, you would believe ----, for he wrote about -----.  47 But since you do not believe what he wrote, how are you going to believe what ---- say?”





“I will make them (who is the “them”? -------) come and fall down at your feet and ----------------- that I have loved you”



Some Christian churches today teach that at the end of the world, all of the Jews will be converted to Christianity.  How would you answer them, based on what you just heard from Jesus in verse 9?





·        Because of their patient faithfulness to Jesus, he will preserve them from the trials that will come upon the earth.  Those trials will be described in figurative language in the rest of this book.



VERSES 11-13

11 I am coming soon. Hold on to what you have, so that no one will take your crown.  12 Him who overcomes I will make a pillar in the temple of my God. Never again will he leave it. I will write on him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which is coming down out of heaven from my God; and I will also write on him my new name.  13 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.



“I will make a pillar in the temple of my God” –



Ephesians 2:19-22 “19 Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God’s people and members of God’s household,  20 built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Christ Jesus himself as the chief cornerstone.  21 In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord.  22 And in him you too are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his Spirit.”



The “temple of my God” is figurative language for the ----------------------, which will dwell forever in the kingdom of ----------------.  To be a “pillar in that temple” means to be a true ----------------.   To write one’s name on something emphasizes ------------------.  Jesus here promises first of all, that steadfast, unshaken (pillars) believers will belong to God forever.  They will also belong to the ----------- of God.  And that city of God is denoted as the ------    ---------------------, where the temple of God was built.  But this isn’t the old ---------------, which is in ruins, but a new ---------------- coming down out of heaven from God.  The “new name” of Jesus that will be written on believers reminds us of the dual nature of Christ that he is both -------- and ----------.  During his humiliation he wore the garb of a ---------------, as he once said, “The son of Man came not to be served but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many.”  In the New Jerusalem that is coming down, we will know him as the glorious victor over -------,   --------, and the power of the ----------.  Once he was despised and rejected by men, but now he is the ---------- of kings and the ---------- of lords, (Revelation 19:16) and those on whom he has written his new name belong to him, and will share in the glory of that new name.  





What is this “New Jerusalem” that is referred to?  Read chapter 21:1-2 and answer: --------------





Revelation 21:1-2 Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea.  2 I saw the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride beautifully dressed for her husband.







THE LETTER TO LAODICEA (3:14-22)





Laodicea was over 40 miles southeast of Philadelphia.  It is the only one

of these seven churches (except Ephesus) that is mentioned elsewhere in

the Bible (Colossians 4:16).  It no longer exists, but the modern city of

Denizli (population 50,000) lies near the old site of Laodicea.





VERSE 14

14 “To the angel of the church in Laodicea write: These are the

words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the ruler of

God’s creation.





“ruler of God’s creation” - Greek: ἡ ἀρχὴ - can mean “ruler” or “beginning”





The Jehovah’s Witness bible, the New World Translation, translates this phrase “the beginning of the creation by God”, which supports their false teaching that Jesus is the first creature God created.





But John’s gospel begins (John 1:3) “Through him all things were made; without him nothing was made that has been made.”  If nothing was made without Jesus and all things were made by him, it’s obvious that he himself could not have been made in the beginning.





Another passage that reinforces Jesus as Creator of all things is Colossians 1:16: “16 For by him all things were created: things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers or authorities; all things were created by him and for him.”  But the New World Translation of the J.W.’s translates, “by means of him all (other) things were created.”  The word “other” is not in the Greek text.  The Witnesses have added it.





When a word can be translated two different ways, then you must consider the context of the verse to decide which meaning is correct in that verse.  Considering that Jesus always describes himself by referring to something he said about himself in chapter one, and considering that in chapter one he said he is “the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth” (1:5) and here he calls himself “the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the ἡ ἀρχὴ Of God’s creation,” the obvious meaning of ἡ ἀρχὴ here is “ruler of God’s creation.”  By the way, the NWT translates ἡ ἀρχὴ as “ruler” in Rev. 1:5 and as “beginning” in 3:14.  We call that inconsistent translating or biased translating to try to support their false views that Christ is only human and not divine, that Christ is amongst the created and not the eternal Second Person of the Trinity.  Shame on them! Their Heresy shall be fully revealed on the Last Day!

VERSES 15-22





15 I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were

either one or the other!  16 So, because you are lukewarm—neither hot

nor cold—I am about to spit you out of my mouth.  17 You say, ‘I am

rich; I have acquired wealth and do not need a thing.’ But you do not

realize that you are wretched, pitiful, poor, blind and naked.  18 I counsel

you to buy from me gold refined in the fire, so you can become rich; and

white clothes to wear, so you can cover your shameful nakedness; and

salve to put on your eyes, so you can see.

19 Those whom I love I rebuke and discipline. So be earnest, and repent.

 20 Here I am! I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice

and opens the door, I will come in and eat with him, and he with me.

21 To him who overcomes, I will give the right to sit with me on my throne,

just as I overcame and sat down with my Father on his throne.  22 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.”



Jesus says the church in Laodicea was guilty of spiritual dullness and indifference—neither hot nor cold, they didn’t really care!  If a person is hot toward Jesus, then he has a strong ----------- and it will show in his/her attitude towards the -------- of God.  If he is cold toward Jesus, then he has taken a stand --------- Jesus.  Jesus says he would have preferred them to be one or the other.  Jesus can not tolerate their wishy-washy indifference to him.  They are not paying attention to him, because they think they are self-sufficient due to their rich industry and economy.





Laodicea was a very wealthy city.  It was a well-known banking center.  It was the center of a thriving wool industry, and its cloth was famous throughout the Roman world.  It was also famous for a type of eye salve that was invented there and prescribed by physicians all over the Roman world.





Isn’t it interesting that Jesus tells them that they think they are rich, but they are poor?  Jesus reminds them that they will not find their wealth in earthly goods but in heavenly goods.  So Jesus counsels them to buy from him…



Gold - --------------------------------------



White clothes - -------------------------------



Salve or healing ointment - ---------------------------



Jesus threatens that he will spit them out of his mouth.  What do you feel like doing when you drink a sip of cold coffee that you expect to be hot?  What do you feel like doing when you take a sip of a soft drink only to find that a bug was floating in the top of it and is now in your mouth?  Well, Jesus will do that to them if they do not change!







The meaning of verses 19-22 is quite clear.  Jesus is simply repeating the

promise he has made in the other letters: those who remain ------------

to him will receive the ------------  ---  ------- in heaven and will

reign with him on his ------------. 
