---
weight: 7
slug: revelation-7
title:  The Gates of Hell shall not Prevail E-Lesson5 chapter5
author: Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
kecheng: Revelation
---


 打印	 Email
分类：启示录Revelation
作者：Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
点击数：1822

10UR030949  Click here to see the full notes with pictures.



THE SCROLL WITH THE SEVEN SEALS (5:1-5)




VERSES 1-5

The Scroll and the Lamb



5       Then I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll

with writing on both sides and sealed with seven seals.  2 And I saw a

mighty angel proclaiming in a loud voice, “Who is worthy to break the

seals and open the scroll?”  3 But no one in heaven or on earth or under the

earth could open the scroll or even look inside it.  4 I wept and wept

because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll or look

inside.  5 Then one of the elders said to me, “Do not weep! See, the Lion

of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has triumphed. He is able to open the scroll and its seven seals.”





In the right hand of God the Father John sees a -------------- sealed with --------- seals.  The scroll had writing on both sides of it.  It could not be read because it was ----------------.  Seals usually were pressed by a ring into wax that held the scroll in a closed position.  They were to keep unauthorized people from reading the scroll.



 A mighty -------------- was proclaiming with a ----------- voice, “Who is ----------- to open the ----------- and break its ------------?”

John was having trouble finding someone who was ------------ to open up the scroll and tell what it said?  The reason he was having trouble finding anyone was because none of the people of this earth were able to triumph over  S-------, S-----------, or H---------.



Remember the two subjects John is writing about in this book from chapter 1, verse 19: What is ------- and what will --------   ---------   ----------.    In chapters 2 & 3 (letters to the seven churches) we have the --------- part.  What will be revealed in chapters 6 & 7 as the scroll is opened up is the ----------  part.  So the words on the scroll that no one was worthy to open contains what is going to happen in the -----------, after John writes the book.



No one is worthy to open up the scroll because only -----------  knows the -------------.  

1 John 3:8b The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the devil's work.

Jesus is worthy to open up the seal because he --------------- the -------------’s work by living a ----------------- life, and then ----------------- his life as a ransom for sin to his ---------------- Father in heaven.  The Father --------------- accepted his Son’s sacrifice as the ----------- grave could not hold him in.  Jesus ------------- on the -------- day and now has master over S----, S---------, and H---------.

The Scroll and the Lamb



In Revelation 22:15 ( 15 Outside are the dogs, those who practice magic

arts, the sexually immoral, the murderers, the idolaters and everyone

 who loves and practices falsehood) God excludes from the church of

God in heaven all of the following: “Those who practice magic arts,

the sexually immoral, the murderers, the idolaters and everyone who

loves and practices falsehood.”  Based on those words and what chapter

5 tells us about the ability of people to predict the future, what should

our attitude be towards fortunetellers and psychics who claim they can

predict the future?





One of the elders then exclaims that there is someone who is worthy to open the scroll and tell us what the future holds!  That Worthy One is described as the “Lion of the tribe of Judah” and as the “Root of David.”  To understand whom is meant by the Lion of the tribe of Judah read the following…





Genesis 49:9-10 9 You are a lion’s cub, O Judah; you return from the prey, my son. Like a lion he crouches and lies down, like a lioness—who dares to rouse him? 10 The scepter will not depart from Judah,

nor the ruler’s staff from between his feet, until he comes to whom it belongs and the obedience of the nations is his.



To understand who is meant by the Root of David read the following…



Isaiah 11:1,10

The Branch From Jesse

11   A shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse; from his roots a Branch will bear fruit.

10 In that day the Root of Jesse will stand as a banner for the peoples; the nations will rally to him, and his place of rest will be glorious.

 THE LAMB BEFORE THE THRONE (REVELATION 5:6-8)



VERSES 6-8

6 Then I saw a Lamb, looking as if it had been slain, standing in the center of the throne, encircled by the four living creatures and the elders. He had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth.  7 He came and took the scroll from the right hand of him who sat on the throne.  8 And when he had taken it, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. Each one had a harp and they were holding golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.



Verse 6 is the first of 26 passages in Revelation where Jesus is called a “Lamb.”  In the rest of the New Testament Jesus is called a “Lamb” in only four other passages, two of them being in John’s Gospel: “Look, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!” (1:29) and “Look, the Lamb of God!” (1:36).



Isaiah 53:7 had prophesied that the Redeemer would be like a Lamb. Isaiah wrote, “7 He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth; he was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is silent, so he did not open his mouth.”



The Lamb that John sees looks as if it had been slain, which represents the ----------------------.  The Lamb has -------- horns and ------- eyes on his head.  John tells us that these are a symbol of the ------   -----------   ---   --------, which is the -----------   ------------.  This has to remind you of the work of the Triune God and also that Jesus sent his --------------   -------------- to us, as he said he would - “But I tell you the truth: It is for your good that I am going away. Unless I go away, the Counselor will not come to you; but if I go, I will send him to you” (John 16:7). Therefore, even as horns proceed from the head of this Lamb, so it is that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Son. When you come to worship the Lord, keep this image of the Lamb in your mind and your worship will never be dull!



How do we reconcile the fact that Jesus was seen in the Old Testament as both, the “Lion from the tribe of Judah,” and now he has been depicted as a suffering Lamb who looked as if he had been “slain”?





The four living creatures and the 24 elders fell down to worship the



Lamb.  The four living creatures were the ------------, and the 24

elders represent the --------------. Each angel and member of the

church was holding a harp, which must be a symbol of their ----------

and they were holding golden bowls full of incense.  We are told that

these are a symbol of the --------------- of the -----------, God’s

people.



 THE NEW SONG IN PRAISE OF THE LAMB (5:9-14)



VERSES 9-14



9 And they sang a new song:  “You are worthy to take the scroll and to

open its seals, because you were slain, and with your blood you purchased

men for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. 10 You

have made them to be a kingdom and priests to serve our God, and they

will reign on the earth.” 11 Then I looked and heard the voice of many angels,

numbering thousands upon thousands, and ten thousand times ten thousand.

They encircled the throne and the living creatures and the elders.  12 In a loud

voice they sang: “Worthy is the Lamb, who was slain, to receive power and

wealth and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and praise!” 13 Then I

heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the

sea, and all that is in them, singing: “To him who sits on the throne and to the

Lamb be praise and honor and glory and power, for ever and ever!” 14 The four living creatures said, “Amen,” and the elders fell down and worshiped.





The Old Testament has seven places where it tells us to sing a “new” song to the LORD…



Psalm 33:3 3 Sing to him a new song; play skillfully, and shout for joy.

Psalm 40:3 3 He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God. Many will see and fear and put their trust in the LORD.

Psalm 96:1 1 Sing to the LORD a new song; sing to the LORD, all the earth.

Psalm 98:11 Sing to the LORD a new song, for he has done marvelous things; his right hand and his holy arm

have worked salvation for him.

Psalm 144:99 I will sing a new song to you, O God; on the ten-stringed lyre I will make music to you,

Isaiah 42:10 Sing to the LORD a new song, his praise from the ends of the earth, you who go down to the sea, and all that is in it, you islands, and all who live in them.



Every time it tells us to sing a new song, we are to do it because the LORD has given us salvation.  There are only 2 passages in the N.T. that tell us to sing a “new” song, both of them in Revelation.  This new song the living creatures and elders are singing is also a song of praise to Jesus for his work of salvation.



Jesus is worthy to tell us the future because of his grace to us in giving his life for our salvation.  



Notice the four-fold description of the people of the earth: ----------------,  ------------------,  ------------------,  ----------------------.



Jesus’ salvation has made us “kings” and “priests.”  Keeping in mind the context of the work of the king and the priest in the O.T., what does it mean to you that you are a king and a priest right now?   







John saw “10,000 x 10,000 angels” = ------------- - just a multitude of spirit creatures joining the four living creatures and the elders in praising God.  Notice that their song contains “7” words of praise -





1.                                 2.                                             3.                                             4.



5.                                 6.                                             7.










It’s rather interesting to note that the song of praise to God back in 4:11

included ------  words of praise, which reminds us of the number

for --------, and now the song of praise of all creation (the world)

here in 5:13 includes ---------  words of praise, which is the number

of the earth.  The four living creatures say,

“--------” - word of agreement.  Once again the elders fell flat on

their faces and worshiped God.












= A sign of respect, and honor, given to him who earned our spot in heaven, the Lord Jesus Christ!

 
