---
weight: 9
slug: revelation-9
title:  The Gates of Hell shall not Prevail G-Lesson7 chapter7
author: Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
kecheng: Revelation
---

The Gates of Hell shall not Prevail G-Lesson7 chapter7

 打印	 Email
分类：启示录Revelation
作者：Pastor Matthew P. DeNoyer
点击数：1777

10UR030949  Click here to see the full notes with pictures.



THE 144,000: THE CHURCH (7:1-8)



144,000 Sealed

7 After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth to prevent any wind from blowing on the land or on the sea or on any tree.  2 Then I saw another angel coming up from the east, having the seal of the living God. He called out in a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm the land and the sea:  3 “Do not harm the land or the sea or the trees until we put a seal on the foreheads of the servants of our God.”  4 Then I heard the number of those who were sealed: 144,000 from all the tribes of Israel.



5 From the tribe of Judah 12,000 were sealed,

from the tribe of Reuben 12,000,

from the tribe of Gad 12,000,

6 from the tribe of Asher 12,000,

from the tribe of Naphtali 12,000,

from the tribe of Manasseh 12,000,

7 from the tribe of Simeon 12,000,

from the tribe of Levi 12,000,

from the tribe of Issachar 12,000,

8 from the tribe of Zebulun 12,000,

from the tribe of Joseph 12,000,

from the tribe of Benjamin 12,000.

------------



John sees 4 angels standing on the 4 corners of the earth, holding back the 4 winds.  These “winds” have the power to destroy the earth.



The number 4 is a symbol for the  ------------.



Another angel who had God’s seal told them not to destroy the world until all of God’s servants had God’s seal put on their foreheads.



When you put your seal on something it means --------------------------------.



Read Ezekiel 9:3-9

3 Now the glory of the God of Israel went up from above the cherubim, where it had been, and moved to the threshold of the temple. Then the LORD called to the man clothed in linen who had the writing kit at his side  4 and said to him, “Go throughout the city of Jerusalem and put a mark on the foreheads of those who grieve and lament over all the detestable things that are done in it.”

5 As I listened, he said to the others, “Follow him through the city and kill, without showing pity or compassion.  6 Slaughter old men, young men and maidens, women and children, but do not touch anyone who has the mark. Begin at my sanctuary.” So they began with the elders who were in front of the temple.

7 Then he said to them, “Defile the temple and fill the courts with the slain. Go!” So they went out and began killing throughout the city.  8 While they were killing and I was left alone, I fell facedown, crying out, “Ah, Sovereign LORD! Are you going to destroy the entire remnant of Israel in this outpouring of your wrath on Jerusalem?”

9 He answered me, “The sin of the house of Israel and Judah is exceedingly great; the land is full of bloodshed and the city is full of injustice. They say, ‘The LORD has forsaken the land; the LORD does not see.’  10 So I will not look on them with pity or spare them, but I will bring down on their own heads what they have done.”



Read Ephesians 1:13,14

13 And you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit,  14 who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God’s possession—to the praise of his glory.



We received God’s seal and become his possession when we -------------------------------------.



So what this angel who holds God’s seal is saying to the other four angels is: “Do not destroy the world until all of the --------------- have been brought to ------------.”





John 10:16 16I have other sheep that are not of this sheep pen. I must bring them also. They too will listen to my voice, and there shall be one flock and one shepherd.  





The number of people who received God’s seal on their foreheads were 144,000.  The 144,000 are described as 12,000 from each of the 12 “tribes of Israel.”  


12 SONS OF JACOB

Judah
Reuben
Gad
Asher
Naphtali
Joseph
Simeon
Dan
Levi
Issachar
Zebulun
Benjamin




12 TRIBES OF OLD TESTAMENT

Judah
Reuben
Gad
Asher
Naphtali
“Manasseh”
Simeon
Dan
Issachar
Zebulun
“Ephraim”
Benjamin




12 TRIBES OF REVELATION

Judah
Reuben
Gad
Asher
Naphtali
Manasseh
Simeon
Levi
Issachar
Zebulun
Joseph
Benjamin

























































Many commentators insist that the 144,000 are converted Jews because they are said to come from “every tribe of the children of Israel.”





Why is this an impossibility based on the text of Revelation?





If the listing of the 12 tribes of Israel in Revelation is not the 12 tribes of Israel as we know them from the Old Testament, then who are they?





Remember, the New Testament says that the real Jews and the real Israel are -------------------------. (Remember the discussion under leters to “Smyrna” and “Philadelphia” in Chapters 2 & 3?)

So these 144,000 are believers who had God’s seal put on them.  And they need to be sealed before the world gets destroyed and the end comes.



12 is the number of the --------------------.  One 12 is a symbol for the --------   ----------------  believers.  The other is a symbol for the -------   ------------------ believers.  12 x 12 = -----------.  10 is the number of ----------------------.  10 is cubed.  3 is the number for ---------.

144,000 is 12 x -------- x 10 x ------- x --------.



When I consider the whole context of this section, I’m convinced that the number 144,000 is a symbolic number for the ---------------------- church, all believers of all time.  When the angel puts the -------- of God on the final person chosen by God for salvation, then the church will be -----------------.  144,000 is the number used to describe that event.







THE CHURCH (ALL BELIEVERS OF ALL TIME) IN HEAVEN (7:9-17)

The Great Multitude in White Robes                                    



9 After this I looked and there before me was a great multitude that no

one could count, from every nation, tribe, people and language, standing

 before the throne and in front of the Lamb. They were wearing white

robes and were holding palm branches in their hands.  10 And they cried

out in a loud voice:

“Salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne, and to the

Lamb.”

11 All the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures. They fell down on their faces before the

throne and worshiped God,  12 saying:  “Amen! Praise and glory and wisdom and thanks and honor and power and strength be to our God for ever and ever. Amen!”

13 Then one of the elders asked me, “These in white robes—who are they, and where did they come from?”



14 I answered, “Sir, you know.”

And he said, “These are they who have come out of the great tribulation; they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.

 15 Therefore,  “they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple; and he who sits on the throne will spread his tent over them. 16 Never again will they hunger; never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat upon them, nor any scorching heat. 17 For the Lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd; he will lead them to springs of living water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.”



John sees a multitude so large that no one can ------------ them.  And they come from every -----------, --------------, ------------, and ---------------- (4 terms).  4 is the number of the -------------.  They are wearing white robes which means they were made --------------------.  They are holding palm branches in their hands.  In Mideast culture palm branches were a symbol of V-----------------.  They are singing a song of praise to God for his work of salvation.  The angels, the four living creatures and the 24 elders join them.  One of the 24 elders asked John, “Who are all these people in white robes?”  John said, “Sir, you know,” i.e., “You’re going to have to answer that question.”

The elder then answers his own question by saying, “These are the people who have ------------  their --------------- and made them ------------------- in the ------------- of the --------------.  They have come -------   ---- the great --------------------------.”



This is the only place in the Bible where the term “the great tribulation” occurs.  Millenialists make a big deal out of this.  Remember, millenialists teach:



1. There will come a time when Jesus will physically come back to the earth and reign here for 1,000 years.

2. The 7 years before he returns will be a period of terrible tribulation on the earth.  No where does the Bible speak of a great tribulation or even a tribulation in connection with a period of 7 years.

3. Most millenialists teach that right before this “great tribulation” all the Christians on earth will be raptured.   



Note: The elder did not say, “These people escaped the great tribulation” or “These people were taken away before the great tribulation started.”  He said, “These people came out of the great tribulation.”  They were in it and they came out of it.





THE JOY OF HEAVEN





So John sees all of the church, all of the true believers, in heaven in eternity - all those who washed their robes in the blood of Jesus and came out of the great tribulation Jesus said would come on the earth (all the troubles revealed in the first six seals - the signs of the end of time), and John uses ----------- (number) statements to describe their final, complete existence in heaven.





The only conclusion we can draw is that this great tribulation is all the ---------------- that Christians face in their lives in this ------------------- world.





Read Acts 14:22.  What is the time period of the great tribulation?



 22 strengthening the disciples and encouraging them to remain true to the faith. “We must go through many hardships to enter the kingdom of God,” they said.





Some Christians say we won’t eat or drink in heaven.  They quote verse 16 as proof.  Respond to that opinion.





What is the Lord saying to us in the last line of verse 17?
