---
weight: 1
slug: eschatology-0
title:  The Last Things (Eschatology)
author: Pastor Witt
kecheng: The Last Things (Eschatology)
---

The Last Things (Eschatology)


alt
Description: A systematic study of the Bible's "last things" teachings that cover the end of life matters for people in this world and the matters that deal with the next life after this present life ends.

Course Objectives

The objectives of this course are to help students:

1) Gain a clear, thorough knowledge of the Bible's teachings of the Last Things.

2) Become aware of some common misunderstandings and false teachings regarding the Last Things.

3) Learn how to better apply Last Things teachings to one's own life and to the life of others.

General Outline

Lesson 1: Physical Death

Lesson 2: The State Of The Soul Between Death And The Resurrection

Lesson 3: The Second Coming Of Jesus Christ

Lesson 4: The Resurrection Of The Deadalt

Lesson 5: The Final Judgment

Lesson 6: The End Of The Universe

Lesson 7: Eternal Damnation/Hell

Lesson 8: Eternal Life/Heaven

Lesson 9: A Major Error Of The Last Times

Examination

Class Procedure

The instruction will work with the students (through a translator, if necessary) to carefully go through the teaching material and exercises for each lesson. The instructor will give the final exam at the conclusion of the class.

Text And Notes

"The Last Thing" (Eschatology) (bilingual edition) by Dr. James G. Witt, III

Course Length

The course will generally take between 13-18 hours of instruction time to complete.
