---
weight: 0
slug: Luke-Beckman-0
title:  Syllabus for The Gospels Course
author: Pastor Beckman
kecheng: Gospel Harmony – The Gospel of Luke
---

Syllabus for The Gospels Course

Course Description – Four individual courses divided as follows: Course 1 – the Synoptic Question and Matthew 1-25 Course 2 – Portions of Luke not treated by Matthew and Mark Course 3 – The Savior’s Suffering, Death, and Resurrection from the Four Gospels Course 4 – The Gospel of John

Course Goals –alt

Cognitive Goals:
Ø      Learn the major divisions of the life and ministry of Jesus as they unfold in the gospels.
Ø      Learn to explain from a faith perspective the apparent contradictions in the incidents recorded in the gospels by more than one gospel writer.
Ø      Better understand the unique purpose behind the work of each gospel writer.
Ø      Better understand how Jesus’ life and ministry fulfilled Old Testament prophecy.
Ø      Better understand how Jesus’ words and actions divided those who believed and those who did not.

Affective Goals:
Ø      Develop a deeper trust in and love for Jesus, the Son of God and Savior of the world.
Ø      Learn to know Jesus better as the “Friend of sinners.”
Ø      Find from Jesus’ words comfort in this life and hope for eternity.
Ø      Better evaluate current religious thinking in light of Jesus’ words and actions.
Ø      Develop a greater desire to serve God and one’s fellow human beings, especially by sharing with them the good news of Jesus.

Course 1 Outline –
Lessons 1 - 2:    Introduction to the synoptic gospels and the gospels’ authors
Lessons 3 - 18:  The Gospel of Matthew, chapters 1 – 25

Course 2 Outline –
(Completing Course 1 is a prerequisite for enrolling in Course 2.)
Lessons 1 - 11:  The Gospel of Luke, chapters 1, 2, 7, 10 - 19     

Course 3 Outline –
(Completing Course 2 is a prerequisite for enrolling in Course 3.)
Lessons 1 – 9:      The Suffering, Death, Resurrection, and Post-Resurrection
Appearances of Jesus from the Four Gospels

Course 4 Outline –
(Completing Course 3 is a prerequisite for enrolling in Course 4.)
[Note: The John course is still being developed at the time this syllabus is written.]

alt
Procedure –The instructor provides study guides and Bible reading assignments in advance and leads the discussion in class. The course will be offered in both English and Mandarin. If the course is conducted through a translator, the study guides will be submitted in advance for translation, and the translator will distribute them electronically to the students.

Each lesson will attempt to apply Jesus’ teaching of the law an d gospel to the lives of the students in a practical way. Portions of Mark will be discussed if they differ from parallel references in Matthew and Luke.

Course Purpose and Length – Each session is expected to last 1 ½ hours, and sessions will be held once per week over a reasonable period of time, recognizing that answering faith’s questions is more important than adhering to a rigid schedule. It is likely that an individual lesson may not be completed in one session.
