---
weight: 0
slug: christian-leadership-Prange-0
title:  Christian Leadership Pr
author: Prof. Paul T. Prange
kecheng: Christian Leadership Pr
---

Christian Leadership
Study Guide
by
Prof. Paul T. Prange
© 2007 WELS Congregational Assistant Program
Christian Leadership
A Study of the Letter to Titus and Three Biblical Case Studies
　　　　 　　　　
Table of Contents
Introduction
Titus Chapter 1 -- Christian Leaders Serve the Gospel to People
Case Study 1 -- Stephen
(Topics: meaning of servant leadership, qualities in a Christian leader, distractions from leadership)
Titus Chapter 2 -- Christian Leaders Teach the Word of God
Case Study 2 -- Peter
(Topics: meaning of sound doctrine, specific messages to specific groups, importance of emphasizing the gospel)
Titus Chapter 3 -- Christian Leaders Keep Leading Even When the Work Is Difficult
Case Study 3 -- Paul
(Topics: meaning of baptism in every day life, Christian confrontation, Christian teamwork)
Introduction
Our course uses the Bible book of Titus to study Christian leadership.
Titus is the name of a Christian leader. He came to faith when the Holy Spirit worked through the Word of God spoken by another Christian leader, the apostle Paul. Titus was with Paul when he went on his missionary trips. Titus saw how Paul worked with Peter, another Christian leader. After he was trained, Titus worked as a leader in Corinth, Crete and Dalmatia.
In the book of Titus we find out that Titus worked with other Christian leaders on the island of Crete. While Titus was there, the Holy Spirit inspired Paul to write a letter to him. We call the letter to Titus a “pastoral epistle” because it is a letter (“epistle”) to someone who was doing a lot of the same work that a pastor does today. The letter to Titus is good for all Christian leaders to study.
Our course also uses the examples of three Christian leaders to study Christian leadership.
Stephen, Peter and Paul were all leaders of the Christian church. In their life stories we can see how many of the principles of good Christian leadership were put into practice. We can see the results. When we study their lives, we put Hebrews 13:7 into practice: “Remember your leaders, who spoke the word of God to you. Consider the outcome of their life and imitate their faith.”
Titus 1
Christian Leaders Serve the Gospel to People
Read Titus 1:1
Paul’s letters start with his name because two thousand years ago many people signed their letters at the beginning, not the end.
1. Paul calls himself a servant. What does it mean to be a servant?
2. Paul was a leader in the church, but he calls himself a servant. How can a leader be a servant? See Matthew 20:25-28 to find out how Jesus explains it.
Read Titus 1:2-3
3. When you are a servant, you serve things to people. What things do Christian leaders serve to people?
4. How is serving those things different from being a worldly leader?
Read Titus 1:4
5. Paul was a Christian leader and a servant writing to Titus. Paul serves the gospel to Titus when he writes to him. What words does Paul use to remind Titus of the gospel?
Read Titus 1:5
6. Paul left Titus in Crete to do something that was not done yet. What was Titus supposed to do?
7. How would Titus be serving the gospel to people by doing that?
A Christian leader looks for ways to serve the gospel to people. A Christian leader looks for times to serve the gospel to people. The most important thing any Christian leader can do is serve the gospel to people.
Read Titus 1:6
The New Testament word for elder is “presbuteros,” meaning “old man.” They were one kind of leader in the church. Some of the work they did was similar to what pastors do today, but not identical. The qualifications listed here for elders are good qualifications for any Christian leader.
8. “Blameless” means “having a good reputation.” Christian leaders are supposed to have a good reputation. How do you get a good reputation from your family?
Read Titus 1:7
9. To keep a good reputation, what things should you not do?
Read Titus 1:8
10. To keep a good reputation, what things should you do?
Read Titus 1:9
11. To keep a good reputation as a Christian leader, what three things do you need to do?
12. What will you have to learn in order to do those three things?
In another letter to another Christian leader, Paul writes, Watch your life and doctrine closely (1 Timothy 4:16). Christian leaders cannot be good servants in church and then be bad everywhere else. Being a good Christian leader involves your whole life.
Read Titus 1:10-11
The circumcision group was people who said that skin from a man’s penis had to be cut off (“circumcised”) if the man wanted to go to heaven. They got this idea from what God told his people in the Old Testament about how to show that they believed his promises. After Jesus fulfilled what God had told his people, no one had to be circumcised any more. Titus was not circumcised.
13. How was the circumcision group ruining whole households?
14. What laws distract people from the gospel today?
Read Titus 1:12-14
15. What other things distracted people on Crete from the gospel?
16. When we think that every member of a culture or ethnic group is the same, good or bad, that’s “racism.” But the people within a culture do often share the same characteristics. Here Paul makes an observation about some sins commonly found among the people of Crete. What common sins in your culture make accepting the Gospel especially difficult?
Read Titus 1:15, 16
17. What do Christian leaders say to people who do not listen to their consciences?
Christian leaders and the Christians they lead will always have things that distract them from serving the gospel to people. It is important to say what those distractions are. It is important to call those distractions sinful.
Case Study One
Stephen
Chapters 6 and 7 of the Book of Acts tell the story of the Christian leader Stephen.
A. How did Stephen serve people?
Read Acts 6:1-7
1. Which people did Stephen start out serving?
2. What did he serve them?
Read Acts 6:8-15
3. How did this type of service lead Stephen to start serving the gospel to people?
4. What opportunities do you have today to start serving the gospel to people?
B. What qualities of Christian leadership did Stephen have?
Re-read Acts 6, verses 3, 5 and 10.
5. What was the main quality Stephen had?
6. How do you get the Spirit?
7. Think about the list of qualities for a Christian leader we read in Titus 1:8: hospitable, loving what is good, self-controlled, upright, holy, disciplined. How can you be like that?
C. What distractions did Stephen face?
Read Acts 7.
8. Stephen lists distractions that God’s people have faced. What were some?
7:4
7:5
7:6
7:9
7:11
7:18,19
7:39,40
7:51
9. What distraction did Stephen face?
7:58
10. How did God keep Stephen faithful through all the distractions?
7:56
11. How will God keep you faithful through all the distractions?
May he grant you such faithfulness!
Titus 2
Christian Leaders Teach the Word of God
Read Titus 2:1
Paul assumes here that Titus will teach. Every Christian leader teaches someone. Sometimes that will be in private, sometimes in public. Sometimes it will be at church, sometimes at home, sometimes at work. In all kinds of teaching, there are boundaries.
1. What is one boundary for all teaching done by Christian leaders?
2. What is “sound doctrine?”
Read Titus 2:2
3. If you get to teach older men, what is the “sound doctrine” you can teach them?
4. What do the following expressions mean?
--temperate
--worthy of respect
--self-controlled
--sound in faith
--sound in love
--sound in endurance
Read Titus 2:3
5. If you get to teach older women, what is the “sound doctrine” you can teach them?
6. What do the following expressions mean?
--reverent
--not a slanderer
--not addicted to much wine
7. Older women are supposed to teach what is good. Whom do they teach? see verse 4 and 1 Timothy 2:12
Read Titus 2:4-5
8. If you get to teach younger women, what is the “sound doctrine” you can teach them? 　　　　
9. What do the following expressions mean?
--self-controlled
--subject to their husbands
Read Titus 2:6-8
10. If you get to teach young men, what is the “sound doctrine” you can teach them? 　　　　　　　
11. What do the following expressions mean?
--show integrity
--show soundness of speech
Read Titus 2:9-10
Slavery in the days of Titus was not much different from what it was in the United States in the 1800’s or in many parts of the world today. Slaves were the property of their masters and had no legal rights.
Paul had advice on Christian living both to masters and to slaves. The very next letter in our New Testament is a letter that Paul wrote to a slave owner named Philemon. In that letter Paul shows that when a master becomes a Christian it should change his attitude toward his slaves. Christian slaves become brothers to Christian masters (see Philemon verses 15-16).
Here, however, Paul writes to slaves who have become Christian. He tells them that they should continue, even improve, the service they give their masters.
12. According to Paul, what should be the goal of a slave's service to his master?
13. To what situations today might we apply Paul's advice on service to masters?
Most of the teachings we have read so far in this chapter are about how to live. The sound doctrine of the Bible is very practical. It shows us how to live. God wants Christian leaders to teach and show people how to live. God also wants Christian leaders to teach people WHY they live good lives.
Read Titus 2:11
14. Why will God’s people live good lives?
Read Titus 2:12
15. What teaches God’s people to say “no” to bad things and “yes” to good things? How does grace teach us that? See Ephesians 2:8-10.
Read Titus 2:13
16. What are God’s people thinking about when they live good lives?
Read Titus 2:14
17. What did God do for his people that caused them to live good lives?
The grace of God is the gospel. The promise that Jesus will come again is the gospel. Jesus redeeming us is the gospel. The gospel is the reason that God’s people want to follow the law. A good Christian teacher will teach a lot of gospel.
Read Titus 2:15
18. Where does your authority as a Christian leader come from?
A Christian leader will always be teaching by words and actions. A good Christian leader will always be teaching within the boundaries of the Word of God.
Case Study Two
Peter
Chapter 10 of the Bible book of Acts tells part of the story of the Christian leader Peter.
A. How did Peter know what “sound doctrine” was?
Peter was one of the disciples of Jesus. ** Read John 14:26** to find out what Jesus told Peter and the other disciples about how they would know what sound doctrine was. Read Acts 2:1-14 to see how Jesus kept his promise.
1. How did Peter know what sound doctrine was even before the New Testament was written?
Read Acts 10:1-17
2. What is another way that God taught Peter sound doctrine?
3. Do we have any promise from God that he will talk to us by visions or dreams?
4. How does God tell Christian leaders what sound doctrine is today? See 2 Timothy 3:16 and 2 Peter 1:16-21
B. What specific message did Peter have for Gentiles?
Read Acts 10:18-35
5. A Gentile is anyone who is not a Jew. Cornelius is not a Jew. What special message does Peter have for Cornelius and the other Gentiles?
6. Why do we need to emphasize that message today?
7. Think about what impression people have about race in the Lutheran church. As a Christian leader, what specific message do you have for those people?
C. How did Peter emphasize the gospel?
Read Acts 10:36-44
8. What gospel is in the following verses?
10:36
10:38
10:40
10:42
10:43
9. Why does Peter stress the gospel so much and in so many different ways?
Peter spoke the Word of God to the Gentiles. The results of his work are summarized in Acts 10:48 and 11:18. May God also grant you this kind of result of your Christian leadership!
Titus 3
Christian Leaders Keep Leading
Even When the Work Is Difficult
Read Titus 3:1-2
Sometimes the people you are leading can make your work difficult.
1. What reminders will always be needed for the people you are leading? List the rulers and authorities in families, in society, and in the church.
2. How are these verses the same as the Fourth Commandment?
3. How are these verses the same as the Eighth Commandment?
The people you lead will need constant reminders about what it means to be a good follower. It is important that they follow other leaders well. The practice will probably make them better followers for you too.
Read Titus 3:3
Sometimes it is your own sinful flesh that can make Christian leadership difficult. This verse describes how things are when your own sinful flesh is winning the fight against your real Christian self.
4. What passions and pleasures can enslave Christian leaders?
5. How can malice and envy be problems for Christian leaders?
You will have to fight your own sinful flesh daily as a Christian leader.
Read Titus 3:4-7
When we see sin in our followers and in ourselves, God tells us to remember baptism.
6. Where is baptism mentioned in these verses?
7. According to these verses, what gifts come along with baptism?
Read Titus 3:8
8. Why do Christian leaders stress these things about baptism?
Martin Luther wrote in his Small Catechism, “Baptism means that the sinful nature in us should be drowned by daily sorrow and repentance, and that all its evil deeds and desires be put to death. It also means that a new person should daily arise to live before God in righteousness and purity forever.”
Read Titus 3:9
Sometimes people will argue with Christian leaders.
9. What kind of arguments should Christian leaders avoid?
Read Titus 3:10-11
Some people are continually arguing in the church about things that are not settled in the Bible. Even worse are the people who divide the church by spreading false teaching in it. Paul calls the people who do either of those things "divisive." They are men and women who are wrongly dividing God's people when God wants his church united.
10. How are Christian leaders supposed to confront divisive people?
11. How are Christian leaders supposed to confront people who are insisting on teaching false doctrine? See Romans 16:17
It is not always easy to confront people who are divisive or false teachers. But God wants Christian leaders to speak the truth to people even in difficult situations. You can speak the truth in a loving way (Ephesians 4:15), but it is important that these people know what God says. God calls such people “self-condemned.”
Read Titus 3:12
Paul tells Titus that there are people helping him. Two men, Artemas and Tychicus, traveled with him and helped him with his work (Tychicus is also mentioned in Acts 20:4, Ephesians 6:21,22, Colossians 4:7,8, and 2 Timothy 4:12). Paul also asks Titus to come and help him.
12. If Paul needed help in his work of Christian leadership, will you also need help?
13. Who has God given to help you?
Read Titus 3:13
Zenas and Apollos were also Christian leaders working with Paul.
14. What are we to do with other Christian leaders working with us?
Read Titus 3:14-15
15. How do we teach our people to treat other Christian leaders working with us?
The work of Christian leaders can be difficult. Our own sin can cause us problems. The sins of our followers can make our work harder than it has to be. We may have to confront people who are divisive or teaching false doctrine. But God has baptized us to give us strength. He supplies us with co-workers and asks us to treat them as his gifts to us.
Case Study Three
Paul
Chapters 22 and 23 of the Book of Acts tell part of the story of the Christian leader Paul.
A. How did God give Paul strength for the difficult parts of his work?
Read Acts 22:2-16
Paul is the man who wrote the book of Titus. He was a Christian missionary. Acts 22 finds him in front of a hostile crowd of people. Paul tells them how he became a Christian leader.
1. How did God call Paul to repentance before leadership?
2. How did God strengthen Paul’s faith for leadership when he repented?
B. What did Paul do when he faced opposition?
Read Acts 22:17-21
3. What did God ask Paul to do when there was opposition in Jerusalem?
4. Why does God sometimes ask us to serve away from the place where we grew up?
Read Acts 22:22-29
5. How did Paul confront the centurion?
6. What advantages do you have when you are confronted?
Read Acts 22:30-23:5
7. What mistake did Paul make in this confrontation?
8. How can you avoid a similar mistake?
C. How did Paul depend on other Christians in his work?
Read Acts 23:11-22
9. How did a relative help Paul?
10. How can your relatives help you in your work of Christian leadership?
Read Romans 16 for a list of people who helped Paul in his work of Christian leadership. May God supply you with many faithful co-workers and helpers in your work of Christian leadership!
