---
weight: 1
slug: The-Gospel-of-John-Cordes-1
title:  John01-14-18
author: Pastor Cordes
kecheng: The Gospel Of John-Co
---

John01-14-18
S#339 = John 1:14 CHRISTMAS 2 Series A 01/03/1993

S#453 = John 1:16-18 CHRISTMAS SUNDAY 12/25/1994

S#558 = John 1:14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series B 12/25/1997

S#996 = John 1:14-18 CHRISTMAS 2 Series A
CHRISTMAS EVE 12/24/2004


14 kai o logov sarx egeneto kai eskhnwsen en hmin kai eyeasameya thn doxan autou doxan wv monogenouv para patrov plhrhv caritov kai alhyeiav 1

1:14 - And <2532> the Word <3056> was made <1096> (5633) flesh <4561>, and <2532> dwelt <4637> (5656) among <1722> us <2254>, (and <2532> we beheld <2300> (5662) his <846> glory <1391>, the glory <1391> as <5613> of the only begotten <3439> of <3844> the Father <3962>,) full <4134> of grace <5485> and <2532> truth <225>.

03056 logov logos log'-os
from 3004; TDNT-4:69,505; n m
AV - word 218, saying 50, account 8, speech 8, Word (Christ) 7, thing 5, not tr 2, misc 32; 330
1) of speech
1a) a word, uttered by a living voice, embodies a conception or idea
1b) what someone has said
1b1) a word
1b2) the sayings of God
1b3) decree, mandate or order
1b4) of the moral precepts given by God
1b5) Old Testament prophecy given by the prophets
1b6) what is declared, a thought, declaration, aphorism, a weighty saying, a dictum, a maxim
1c) discourse
1c1) the act of speaking, speech
1c2) the faculty of speech, skill and practice in speaking
1c3) a kind or style of speaking
1c4) a continuous speaking discourse-instruction
1d) doctrine, teaching
1e) anything reported in speech; a narration, narrative
1f) matter under discussion, thing spoken of, affair, a matter in dispute, case, suit at law
1g) the thing spoken of or talked about; event, deed
2) its use as respect to the MIND alone
2a) reason, the mental faculty of thinking, meditating, reasoning, calculating
2b) account, i.e., regard, consideration
2c) account, i.e., reckoning, score
2d) account, i.e., answer or explanation in reference to judgment
2e) relation, i.e., with whom as judge we stand in relation
2e1) reason would
2f) reason, cause, ground
3) In John, denotes the essential Word of God, Jesus Christ, the personal wisdom and power in union with God, his minister in creation and government of the universe, the cause of all the world's life both physical and ethical, which for the procurement of man's salvation put on human nature in the person of Jesus the Messiah, the second person in the Godhead, and shone forth conspicuously from His words and deeds.
++++ [The Online Bible – good correction to previous note. M.C. 12/23/1999]
This term was familiar to the Jews and in their writings long before a Greek philosopher named Heraclitus used the term Logos around 600 B.C. to designate the divine reason or plan which coordinates a changing universe. This word was well suited to John's purpose in John 1. See Gill on "John 1:1."
====
Mt 22:15 - NIV: Then the Pharisees went out and laid plans to trap him in his WORDS. 2
How foolish for frail mortals to try to trap the Incarnate Word of God in His words!
Some linguists in the 1990’s have concluded that all languages come from a common source (Time magazine article, ca. 1995). Some believe the world’s original language is Hebrew, named after Eber (Genesis 10:24f). Scripture records the first words spoken as those of the Creator: “And God said, ‘Let there be light,’ and there was light” (Genesis 1:3). In that very word was Jesus, “the Word” that “became flesh and lived for a while among us...full of grace and truth” (John 1:14). And when man’s pride refused to glorify God with his words, God came down and confused the languages into babbling at Babel (Genesis 11:1-9). When proclaiming salvation required the miraculous understanding of unstudied languages, the Holy Spirit came as promised on Jesus’ apostles on Pentecost (Acts 2).
Application: We are not to try to wrestle with God’s Word, but “humbly accept the word planted in you, which can save you” (James 1:21). [M.C. 10/25/1996]
Jn 1:1 - NIV: In the beginning was the WORD, and the WORD was with God.

Jn 1:14 - NIV: The WORD became flesh and lived for a while among us....
The full expression of God’s will took on human flesh and blood in the miracle of the incarnation. He did not appear and disappear mysteriously, but came in a way that all could see and believe. And through this second Person of the Triune God, born of the virgin Mary, God communicates to His world: Himself – the one and only escape from the misery of eternal death because of sin. [M.C. 10/23/1999]
Jn 15:3 - NIV: You are already clean because of the WORD I have spoken to you.
Lutheran Confessions: “In these matters which concern the external, spoken Word, we must hold firmly to the conviction that God gives no one his Spirit or grace except through or with the external Word which comes before.... Accordingly, we should and must constantly maintain that God will not deal with us except through his external Word and sacrament. Whatever is attributed to the Spirit apart from such Word and sacrament is of the devil.” 3

1 Co 1:17 - TR: …ouk en sofia logou…
- NIV: For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel—not with WORDS of human wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.
- Literal: …not in the sphere of wisdom of WORD…
Since en takes the dative, it grammatically goes with sofia rather than logou.
The Gospel Paul was sent to declare is not the world’s point of view. In fact, to “speak from the viewpoint of the world” was to fail the second “test” of authenticity (1 Jn 4:5). Thus man’s wisdom has always needed to humble itself to the thoughts of God (Proverbs 3:34; Isaiah 1:18; 55:8f). This underscores again the fact that understanding the Bible is not a matter of private/subjective interpretation (2 Peter 1:20f). [M.C. 1/26/2000]
Sir Isaac Newton: “There are more sure marks of authenticity in the Bible than in any profane history.” 4

Col 2:23 - KJV: Which things have indeed a shew <3056> of wisdom in will worship, and humility, and neglecting of the body; not in any honour to the satisfying of the flesh.
- NIV: Such regulations indeed have an APPEARANCE of wisdom, with their self-imposed worship, their false humility and their harsh treatment of the body, but they lack any value in restraining sensual indulgence.

Related Passages – in the order cited above (NIV):
1 John 4:5 – They are from the world and therefore speak from the viewpoint of the world, and the world listens to them.
Proverbs 3:34 – He mocks proud mockers but gives grace to the humble.
Isaiah 1:18 – “Come now, let us reason together,” says the LORD. “Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they are red as crimson, they shall be like wool.
Isaiah 55:8f – “For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways,” declares the LORD. “As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.
2 Peter 1:20f – Above all, you must understand that no prophecy of Scripture came about by the prophet’s own interpretation. 21 For prophecy never had its origin in the will of man, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.


01096 ginomai ginomai ghin'-om-ahee
a prolongation and middle voice form of a primary verb; TDNT-1:681,117; v
AV - be 255, come to pass 82, be made 69, be done 63, come 52, become 47, God forbid + 3361 15, arise 13, have 5, be fulfilled 3, be married to 3, be preferred 3, not tr 14, misc 4, vr done 2; 678
1) to become, i.e. to come into existence, begin to be, receive being
2) to become, i.e. to come to pass, happen
2a) of events
3) to arise, appear in history, come upon the stage
3a) of men appearing in public
4) to be made, finished
4a) of miracles, to be performed, wrought
5) to become, be made
====
Jn 1:3 - NIV: Through him all things WERE MADE; without him nothing WAS MADE that HAS BEEN MADE.
The Holy Spirit is drawing a very clear and sharp distinction between the pre-incarnate Word and created things which He made as the Creator. [M.C. 12/23/1998]
Jn 1:14 - NIV: The Word BECAME flesh....
There was never a time when the eternal Word did not exist, for John 1:1ff speaks of His eternal existence with God and as God – already “in the beginning.” John also bears witness to the fact that the eternal Word created all things. When God said, “Let there be light” (Genesis 1:3), therein was the Word, hard at work as the Creator.
There was a time, however, when the Second Person of the Trinity was not yet true Man, namely, the time before He was conceived and born of the virgin Mary. Children have no trouble with this and simply believe what God tells us in His written Word, the Holy Scriptures, that Jesus was alive before He was born. As great as the fact of His eternal existence, so great is the miracle of God becoming the God-Man, Jesus Christ. [M.C. 12/21/1996]
Jn 1:27f - KJV: He it is, who coming after me is preferred <1096> before me, whose shoe’s latchet I am not worthy to unloose….30 This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred <1096> before me: for he was before me.
Jn 2:1f - KJV: And the third day there was <1096> a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there:…9 When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made <1096> wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom,
Jesus here shows His glory as God the Creator. He began with common H20. He made it into wine which has a very complicated molecular structure. And every element beyond hydrogen and oxygen had to be created by Jesus in order to make the wine. Simple sugar – glucose C6H12O6 – contained to some degree even in the driest wines, already shows the addition of carbon. And as the Creator, Jesus not only made wine; He made the finest wine. [M.C. 3/31/2001]
Jn 15:7 - NIV: If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it WILL BE GIVEN you.

Ac 1:16ff - KJV: Men and brethren, this scripture must needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake before concerning Judas, which was <1096> guide to them that took Jesus….18 Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity; and falling <1096> headlong, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out. 19 And it was <1096> known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem; insomuch as that field is called in their proper tongue, Aceldama, that is to say, The field of blood….20 For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let <1096> his habitation be <1096> desolate, and let no man dwell therein: and his bishoprick let another take….22 Beginning from the baptism of Jn, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained <1096> to be a witness with us of his resurrection.

Ro 4:18 - TR: ov par elpida ep elpidi episteusen eiv to genesyai auton patera pollwn eynwn…
- KJV: Who against hope believed in hope, that he might become <1096> the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, So shall thy seed be.
- NIV: Against all hope, Abraham in hope believed AND SO BECAME the father of many nations….
- Panning: Abraham in hope believed that he would become the father of many nations, just as it had been said to him.
Commenting on the NIV’s translation, Armin Panning writes: “That could sound as though the desired outcome was achieved because Abraham hoped hard enough or earnestly enough. Such an understanding could make Abraham’s belief and hope look like a good work, something he did to accomplish the goal. Any such notion could obviously be in conflict with the whole line of thought Paul has been developing.” Panning offers his translation as one that “is not only grammatically defensible but is also in line with Paul’s emphasis.” 5

1 Co 6:15 - KJV: ...God forbid.
- NIV: ...Never!
- Literal: ...May it not HAPPEN!

Ga 4:4 - KJV: But when the fulness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son, made <1096> of a woman, made <1096> under the law,
- NIV: But when the time had fully come, God sent his Son, BORN of a woman, BORN under law,
The same comments apply as on Hebrews 1:4 below. Here again, the NIV is more accurate with the rest of Holy Scripture. [M.C. 12/23/2003]

1 Th 2:10 - NETNT: ...how holy, righteous, and blameless WE PROVED TO BE...

He 1:4 - KJV: BEING MADE so much better than the angels…
- NIV: So HE BECAME as much superior to the angels as the name he has inherited is superior to theirs.
Unfortunately, the KJV could leave the mistaken impression that Jesus was a created being and thus not true God. This misinterpretation would, however, only be enabled by ripping the verse out of the context of this text and the rest of Scripture. The NIV is better in this case since it agrees with the immediate and remote context of God’s infallible, inerrant Word. [M.C. 12/23/1999]


04561 sarx sarx sarx
probably from the base of 4563; TDNT-7:98,1000; n f
AV - flesh 147, carnal 2, carnally minded + 5427 1, fleshly 1; 151
1) flesh (the soft substance of the living body, which covers the bones and is permeated with blood) of both man and beasts
2) the body
2a) the body of a man
2b) used of natural or physical origin, generation or relationship
2b1) born of natural generation
2c) the sensuous nature of man, "the animal nature"
2c1) without any suggestion of depravity
2c2) the animal nature with cravings which incite to sin
2c3) the physical nature of man as subject to suffering
3) a living creature (because possessed of a body of flesh) whether man or beast
4) the flesh, denotes mere human nature, the earthly nature of man apart from divine influence, and therefore prone to sin and opposed to God
====
Jn 1:14 - NIV: The Word became FLESH....
Kretzmann: “He partook of all the joys and sorrows of a true human existence; there could be no doubt as to the reality of His humanity. While He is and remains the eternal Logos, He is yet true man, subject to time and space, and in every way like unto us in all the natural needs of the flesh, only without sin.” 6
Throughout the centuries there has only been one major controversy in the Christian Church which denied the humanity of Jesus Christ. Most of the schisms have been caused by the denial of Christ’s divinity. [M.C. 12/21/1996]

Jn 3:6 - KJV: That which is born of the FLESH is FLESH; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
- NIV: FLESH gives birth to FLESH, but the Spirit gives birth to spirit.
- NETNT: What is born of the FLESH is FLESH, but what is born of the Spirit is spirit.

Jn 6:51 - KJV: I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that I will give is my flesh <4561>, which I will give for the life of the world.
- NASB: I am the living bread that came down out of heaven; if anyone eats of this bread, he shall live forever; and the bread also which I shall give for the life of the world is My FLESH.
Jn 6:52ff - KJV: The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh <4561> to eat? 53 Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh <4561> of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. 54 Whoso eateth my flesh <4561>, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day. 55 For my flesh <4561> is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. 56 He that eateth my flesh <4561>, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him.
Reformed theologians like to use John 6 in support of their Representation theories on the Lord’s Supper and in opposition to the Biblical teaching of the Real Presence. But this is like trying to prove the effectiveness of football plays in baseball games. John 6 does not speak of Lord’s Supper. We know this for several reasons, among them:
In passages where there is no question that Jesus is speaking about Lord’s Supper (e.g., Mt 26:26; Mk 14:22; Lu 22:19) our Savior always uses the Greek word swma (touto estin to swma mou – Lu 22:19), not sarx as we have here John 6.
Jesus never says one must take Lord’s Supper in order to be saved (contra: Mark 16:16), nor that an unbeliever can magically be saved by its reception (contra: 1 Corinthians 11:27-29).
Thus our Lutheran Confessions rightly reject any attempts to disprove Christ’s Real Presence in His Holy Supper by misuse of John 6. (See below on The Formula of Concord, Part II, Article VII.)
Letting Scripture interpret Scripture, we would have to conclude that Jesus is here using picture language to say the same thing as He says concretely in Mark 16:16: “Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.” The Jewish opposition requests “sign” or a “symbol” with shmeion in 6:30. Jesus kindly obliges them in order to teach the humble about Himself and harden the unbelievers, just as He does with parables (Luke 8:10). [M.C. 9/7/2000]

The Formula of Concord, Part II, Article VII:
61] There is, therefore, a two-fold eating of the flesh of Christ, one spiritual, of which Christ treats especially John 6, 54 , which occurs in no other way than with the Spirit and faith, in the preaching and meditation of the Gospel, as well as in the Lord’s Supper, and by itself is useful and salutary, and necessary at all times for salvation to all Christians; without which spiritual participation also the sacramental or oral eating in the Supper is not only not salutary, but even injurious and damning [a cause of condemnation].
62] But this spiritual eating is nothing else than faith, namely, to hear God’s Word (wherein Christ, true God and man, is presented to us, together with all benefits which He has purchased for us by His flesh given into death for us, and by His blood shed for us, namely, God’s grace, the forgiveness of sins, righteousness, and eternal life), to receive it with faith and appropriate it to ourselves, and in all troubles and temptations firmly to rely, with sure confidence and trust, and to abide in the consolation that we have a gracious God, and eternal salvation on account of the Lord Jesus Christ. [He who hears these things related from the Word of God, and in faith receives and applies; them to himself, and relies entirely upon this consolation (that we have God reconciled and life eternal on account of the Mediator, Jesus Christ),—he, I say, who with true confidence rests in the Word of the Gospel in all troubles and temptations, spiritually eats the body of Christ and drinks His blood.] 7

Ac 2:26f - NIV: ...my BODY also will live in hope, because you will not abandon me to the grave, nor will you let your Holy One see decay.
So how can Kenneth L. Woodward insist that there is no physical resurrection? He writes as if he is speaking for all “scholars,” but nothing could be further from the truth:
“On one point scholars are unanimous: resurrection does not mean the resuscitation of a corpse. It is not as if ‘the soul of Jesus left his body and then returned to it like someone going out of the house at night and coming back in the morning,’ says Father Gerald O’Collins, a specialist on the Resurrection at the Jesuits’ Gregorian University in Rome and cochairman of the summit. ‘We are talking about a glorified body, one that has been transformed by the power of God, and something none of us have ever seen.’” 8
That may be what Father Gerald and the other “scholars” are talking about, but the Holy Spirit through Peter as he quotes David on Pentecost is indeed talking about Jesus’ sarx, His physical body. His spirit did leave His body when He said, “Father, into your hands I commit my spirit” (Luke 23:46) and when He “gave up His spirit” (John 19:30). Even children know this. [M.C. 6/15/2000]

The Holy Spirit inspired Paul to use sarx at least twenty-three times in Romans. Samples:
Ro 1:3 - KJV: Concerning his Son Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh <4561>;
- NIV: ...who as to his HUMAN NATURE was a descendant of David,
-Literal: …of the sperm of David according to the FLESH.
Thus sarx does not always mean “sinful flesh.” The NIV translates correctly. [M.C. 7/3/2002]

Ro 4:1 - KJV: What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining to the flesh <4561>, hath found?
- NIV: What then shall we say that Abraham, our forefather, discovered in this matter?
After discussing the variants and noting the “vague rendering” of the NIV, Prof. Armin Panning points to the word order with kata sarka in the “periodic position in the sentence” and the context to support his conclusion: “What did Abraham receive kata sarka, by his own power? Absolutely nothing of spiritual value!…No, Abraham did not receive anything good kata sarka, by his own natural powers, but with him, as with everyone since, salvation was by faith in what God in Christ had done for him. The timeless words of the prophet Jeremiah (9:24), twice repeated by Paul to the Corinthians, remain sound advice: “Let him who boasts boast in the Lord” (1 Co 1:31; 2 Co 10:17).” 9

1 Co 1:26 - NIV: Not many of you were wise by HUMAN STANDARDS;

2 Co 5:16 - KJV: Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the FLESH: yea, though we have known Christ after the FLESH, yet now henceforth know we him no more.
- NIV: So from now on we regard no one from A WORLDLY POINT OF VIEW. Though we once regarded Christ in THIS WAY, we do so no longer.
- NASB: Therefore from now on we recognize no man according to the FLESH; even though we have known Christ according to the FLESH, yet now we know Him thus no longer.
This supports Prof. Panning’s conclusions regarding kata sarka in Romans 4:1 above. (q.v.). Paul’s problem before his conversion, and the problem of many modern Bible scholars is that they try to understand Jesus of Nazareth only with their physical eyes and human understanding. To such “the things that come from the Spirit of God” will always seem “foolish.” [M.C. 7/8/2000]
Luther: “To know any one according to the flesh is to know him no farther than the flesh is able. But now the flesh is not able to do more than seek its own with regard to everybody; it hates, it is jealous, it does the enemy an ill turn wherever it can; but seeks desire, good will, enjoyment, friendship in everybody for its own benefit.” 10
Kretzmann: “There was a time when Paul had looked also upon the promised Messiah in this carnal manner, when he had thought of Him only as an earthly prince and deliverer from the rule of the Romans. But he had now obtained a better knowledge of Christ, of both person and office. The crucified Jesus was no longer an offense to him as in the days before his conversion, but he recognized in Him the basis of his salvation.” 11

The various meanings of sarx show in the context of the six Strong-numbered usages in Hebrews:
He 2:14 - KJV: Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh <4561> and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil;
He 5:7 - KJV: Who in the days of his flesh <4561>, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;
- NIV: During the days of Jesus' LIFE ON EARTH...
He 9:10f - KJV: Which stood only in meats and drinks, and divers washings, and carnal <4561> ordinances, imposed on them until the time of reformation….13 For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh <4561>:
He 10:20 - KJV: By a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh <4561>;
He 12:9 - KJV: Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh <4561> which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?

1 Jn 4:2 - NIV: ...Every spirit that acknowledges that Jesus has come IN THE FLESH is from God


04637 skhnow skenoo skay-no'-o
from 4636; TDNT-7:385,1040; v
AV - dwell 5; 5
1) to fix one's tabernacle, have one's tabernacle, abide (or live) in a tabernacle (or tent), tabernacle
2) to dwell
====
The Holy Spirit inspired all five New Testament usages of skhnow through the pen of John:
Jn 1:14 - KJV: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt <4637> among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.
- NIV: The Word became flesh and LIVED for a while among us....
- Literal: ...TENTED...among us....
The Old Testament picture of God living, i.e., “tenting” (Nkv <07931>) among the Israelites during all their travels in the desert, of dwelling in Jerusalem where Solomon’s temple was also called “the tent” or “the Tent of Meeting” (1 Chronicles 9:19,21 - NIV) – this picture shines forth in living color in the Person of Jesus Christ, whose name is also Immanuel, “God with us” (Matthew 1:23). [M.C. 12/17/2000]
One year for our Children’s Christmas Service titled, “God Dwells With Us,” we set up a display tent in front of the altar. The tent was open on all sides so that the altar was visible behind the manger with straw and the baby Jesus. On the top of the left support I printed out Nkv on an 8 ½ x 11 sheet of paper as large as my printer would fit. On the right I printed out skhnow. Then as part of our Christmas practices and my sermonette for that service, I taught the children to say the words and what it means that God “tented” among us. For Israelites the Feast of the Tabernacles which commemorated their Exodus encampments, foreshadowed a joyous family camping trip feel of God “tenting” among us in Christ.
After the service a young woman from our ministerial college, MLC in New Ulm, Minnesota, pointed to the tent and asked, “Is that ‘SHAKAN’ OR ‘SAKAN’?” Without the pointing one cannot tell. “Amanda,” I asked incredulously. “How is it that you know how to read Hebrew?” “Some of my pastoral ministry friends at MLC have been teaching me a little,” she replied. “So which is it?” I then explained, “Shakan.”
Our congregational president was working for the Department of Transportation. Other workers sharing stories about their church’s Christmas services sounded somewhat envious when he told them how he learned the Hebrew and Greek for God “tenting” among us.
A year later when someone asked for the Greek word for “tenting,” I was still trying to remember when one of the older children blurted out, “Skhnow!”
It continues to amaze me how God’s people love to learn the Holy Spirit’s own words by which He has so wonderfully communicated to us the salvation of our souls! [M.C. 12/24/2004]

Re 7:15 - TR: …kai o kayhmenov epi tou yronou skhnwsei ep autouv
- KJV: Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell <4637> among them.
- NIV: ...and he who sits on the throne WILL SPREAD HIS TENT over them.
- Literal: ...WILL TENT upon them.

Re 12:12 - TR: dia touto eufrainesye oi ouranoi kai oi en autoiv skhnountev …
- KJV: Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell <4637> in them. Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time.
- NIV: Therefore rejoice, you heavens and you who DWELL in them!...
- Literal: ...and those in them TENTING...

Re 13:6 - TR: kai hnoixen to stoma autou eiv blasfhmian prov ton yeon blasfhmhsai to onoma autou kai thn skhnhn autou kai touv en tw ouranw skhnountav
- KJV: And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell <4637> in heaven.
- NIV: ...and to slander [God's] name and his dwelling place and those who LIVE in heaven.
- Literal: ...to blaspheme his name and the tent <4633> of his, those in the heaven LIVING.

Re 21:3 - TR: kai hkousa fwnhv megalhv ek tou ouranou legoushv idou h skhnh tou yeou meta twn anyrwpwn
kai skhnwsei met autwn
kai autoi laoi autou esontai
kai autov o yeov estai met autwn yeov autwn
- KJV: And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell <4637> with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God.
- NIV: ...Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he WILL LIVE with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. 4 He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away.
- Literal: ...Behold the tent <4633> of God [is] with men, and HE WILL TENT with them....
Note the three-kai construction in the Greek. In the symbolic number language of Revelation the three-part construction signifies the Trinity whose gracious presence is promised in this verse. [M.C. 12/17/2000]

Application: The import of these references, especially where God is said to “tent” with His people, is the constant presence of God with His own, no matter where they go. As Martin Luther
was fond of saying to his children, “God will be with you wherever you go.” The author of Kitty My Rib emphasizes this about Luther, how comforted he was by the Lord’s presence, and how this truth comforted Luther’s children when their father was taken home to heaven. Children in our day would be so much better off spiritually and emotionally if they were given the solid comfort of the Lord’s constant presence rather than the dubious comfort of well-wishers at funerals saying, “I’m sure your father/mother/etc. is looking down on you.” Nothing in Scripture remotely suggests this possibility. But the fact of the Lord’s constant care and attention are everywhere expressed and often repeated in the Aaronic Blessing at the close of Lutheran liturgical services. [M.C. 12/21/1996]


02300 yeaomai theaomai theh-ah’-om-ahee
a prolonged form of a primary verb; TDNT-5:315,706; v
AV - see 20, behold 2, look 1, look upon 1; 24
1) to behold, look upon, view attentively, contemplate (often used of public shows)
1a) of important persons that are looked on with admiration
2) to view, take a view of
2a) in the sense of visiting, meeting with a person
3) to learn by looking, to see with the eyes, to perceive
For Synonyms see entry 5848
====
Jn 1:14 - NIV: ...We HAVE SEEN his glory....
The NIV does not reflect the intensity of looking expressed with yeaomai. Among the twenty-four New Testament usages are examples of Pharisees doing good works to be “seen” by men, obviously in a way that would give them the close observation and attention of actors on a stage, the Greek hypocrites. We are told with yeaomai that the disciples looked upon the resurrected Christ, certainly with the close scrutiny of men who thought Him dead and now would want to make sure of their eyes that He indeed had come to life again. Also the women are said to yeaomai the grave where Jesus had been laid, no doubt looking for evidence of grave robbers or some explanation for why the grave was empty. [M.C. 12/21/1996]
Kretzmann puts it this way: “And while He did not make an open, triumphant show of the divine nature which was His even in the state of humiliation, yet, the evangelist writes, ‘We viewed His glory.’ The disciples had a good and full opportunity to convince themselves by close and intimate scrutiny upon many occasions that He was truly the Son of God, the eternal Logos.” 12


01391 doxa doxa dox'-ah
from the base of 1380; TDNT-2:233,178; n f
AV - glory 145, glorious 10, honour 6, praise 4, dignity 2, worship 1; 168
1) opinion, judgment, view
2) opinion, estimate, whether good or bad concerning someone
2a) in the NT always a good opinion concerning one, resulting in praise, honor, and glory
3) splendor, brightness
3a) of the moon, sun, stars
3b) magnificence, excellence, preeminence, dignity, grace
3c) majesty
3c1) a thing belonging to God
3c1a) the kingly majesty which belongs to him as supreme ruler, majesty in the sense of the absolute perfection of the deity
3c2) a thing belonging to Christ
3c2a) the kingly majesty of the Messiah
3c2b) the absolutely perfect inward or personal excellency of Christ; the majesty
3c3) of the angels
3c3a) as apparent in their exterior brightness
4) a most glorious condition, most exalted state
4a) of that condition with God the Father in heaven to which Christ was raised after he had achieved his work on earth
4b) the glorious condition of blessedness into which is appointed and promised that true Christians shall enter after their Savior's return from heaven
====
Cf. Becker’s notes on Romans 3:7 – “Someone might argue, ‘If my falsehood enhances God’s truthfulness and so increases his glory, why am I still condemned as a sinner?’” (Exe. Ntbk.):
1) doxa apparently comes from dokew (“seem, it seems to me” – an opinion, good/bad –Everyone has an opinion about God even if it is only that of the Atheist.
2) “good opinion” – Only believers have this about God. Unbelievers and unfortunately, our sinful natures, want to blame God first for all the evil that happens to us and around us in the world.
3) to express good opinion of someone = “praise” – i.e., the public telling what is so great and good about God. This is part of “calling on the name of the Lord” (Romans 10:13).
4) basis for good opinion, the excellence spoken of in the good opinion = “glory” – The Day will come when everyone will actually see this and admit it openly – believers in joy, unbelievers in terror. The awesome majesty of Jesus Christ will be unmistakable on the Last Great Day.
God's GLORY has always been to love us undeserving sinners. (See comments about Ps 136 below.) At last everyone will see how loving God really was all along. But for many it will be too late. [M.C. 4/14/2000]

Lu 2:14 - KJV: GLORY to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men.
Spoken by the angels at the Christmas birth announcement, to the empowering amazement of the shepherds. [M.C. 12/24/1997]

Lu 19:38 - NIV: “Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord!” “Peace in heaven and GLORY in the highest!”
At the Triumphal Entry to the rebuke of the Pharisees in the crowd.
Martin Luther: “To attribute glory to God is to believe in Him, to regard Him as truthful, wise, righteous, merciful, and almighty, in short, to acknowledge Him as the Author and Donor of every good. Reason does not do this, but faith does....To be able to attribute such glory to God is wisdom beyond wisdom, righteousness beyond righteousness, religion beyond religion, and sacrifice beyond sacrifice. From this it can be understood what great righteousness faith is and, by antithesis, what a great sin unbelief is.” 13

doxa is emphasized in John’s Gospel by the multiple usages in fifteen verses sampled below:
Jn 1:14 - KJV: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory <1391>, the glory <1391> as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.
- NIV: ...We have seen his GLORY, the GLORY of the one and only Son, who came from the Father, full of grace and truth.
- Literal: ...the GLORY of him, GLORY as of only begotten along side the Father, full of grace and truth.
Kretzmann: “He still possessed the glory, the supernatural glory, of the only-begotten Son of the Father, Ps 2,7.” 14
Related Passage: “The kings of the earth take their stand and the rulers gather together against the LORD and against his Anointed One” (Psalm 2:7).
Jn 2:11 - KJV: This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory <1391>; and his disciples believed on him.
Jn 5:41f - KJV: I receive not honour <1391> from men….44 How can ye believe, which receive honour <1391> one of another, and seek not the honour <1391> that cometh from God only?
There is certainly more involved with the “glory” of God than His shining, “supernatural glory,” noted by Kretzmann (above on Jn 1:14). In reference to Romans 3:7, above, Dr. Siegbert Becker carefully traced for us in class the connection between doxa and dokew, showing how an opinion, generic (good/bad) in its essence, when it became a good opinion was expressed in “praise” (another translation of doxa), and was ultimately based on something very good and excellent. God’s excellence is called His “glory” for which He deserves our praise, our good opinions at all times, even in the midst of trouble (Romans 5:3-6; 8:28).
God’s doxa -goodness is unique in that there is no one as good as He. Thus God is said to be “perfect” (Matthew 5:48 – teleiov = “complete”), without needing any improvement whatsoever. He is so completely good that He “causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous” (Matthew 5:45). This same perfection-completeness He demands of us.
But who can be “perfect” like God? This is the question of David: “Who may ascend the hill of the LORD? Who may stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart...” (Psalm 24:3f). Is David excluding himself by constantly confessing his sin and calling God, “my Savior” (25:5)?
Therein lies the answer. The full glorious brilliance of God is what He told His people, “I am the LORD, who makes you holy” (Levitcus 20:8). When we think of all the unholy things about God’s people, the Israelites, it is amazing to read Psalm 136 and see how God’s “love [Chesed] endures forever” in spite of their (our) unfaithfulness to Him. God’s glory is to love undeserving sinners like us. In fact, nothing shows God’s independence, His full, unfettered glory, more brightly than His unquestionable authority to forgive the worst of sinners.
When the glory of God-in-the-flesh was ready to shine, He intentionally included in His genealogy four sinful, outsider women: Tamar, who posed as a prostitute in order to commit incest with Judah, her father-in-law; Rahab, the harlot from Jericho; Ruth, a foreigner from the wicked people of Moab; and Bathsheba, the adulterous wife of Uriah the Hittite (Matthew 1:3,5,6).
What religious “redactor” or “editor” in his right mind would include such women along with murderers like David, or polygamists like Solomon in the genealogy of the One they call “God” and “Lord”? The Bible does not contain the kind of religious “myths” which negative critics insist were written by religious people to make the populace more religious and more loyal to a particular religion.
Such self-righteous critics of the Holy Scriptures could easily line up with the jeering crowds at a penitentiary when a mass murderer is to be executed. They would wish him a speedy trip to hell, self-assured that such a fate could never overtake them. They would be incensed to hear that such a scoundrel was also forgiven and justified by God through Universal Justification when Christ died and rose again (2 Corinthians 5:19; 1 Jn 1:7). They would be consumed by rage if told that they would go to hell if they did not trust in Jesus as their Savior. Yet this is true according to Jesus’ own words: “Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned” (Mark 16:16).
Unless the criminal to be executed rejected his Savior in unbelief, his repentant faith given by God (Ephesians 2:8f) would be the hand that receives the gift of eternal life. Is this not the glorious comfort Jesus gave the dying thief who by his own admission deserved to be crucified? Yet Jesus says, “Today you will be with me in paradise” (Luke 23:43) – not even a mention of a stopover in purgatory!
Truly in Christ Jesus we see the doxa -glory of the LORD, the God of free and faithful grace, who can forgive whomever He chooses and condemn the self-righteous accordingly. “And all who have raged against him will come to him and be put to shame” (Isaiah 45:24). [M.C. 12/21/1996]

Ro 8:18f - KJV: For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory <1391> which shall be revealed in us….21 Because the creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious <1391> liberty of the children of God.
Martin Luther: “Paul would earnestly admonish us not to become false Christians who look to find in Christ mere pleasure and enjoyment, but to remember that if we are to participate in the ‘eternal weight of glory’ we must first bear the ‘light affliction, which is for the moment.’ 2 Cor 4, 17.
“…Our sympathy must amount to real suffering, which we take upon ourselves as befitting joint-heirs….[Paul] seems to view this life as through obscurities, while beholding the life to come with clear and unobstructed vision….
“…We fail to realize the truth of these words because we do not see with our bodily eyes the supreme glory awaiting us; because we fail to grasp fully the fact that we shall never die but shall have a body that cannot suffer nor be ill. If one could conceive the nature of this reward he would be compelled to say: ‘Were it possible for me to suffer ten deaths by fire or flood, that would be nothing in comparison to the future life of glory. What is temporal suffering, however protracted, contrasted with eternal life? It is not worthy to be called suffering or to be esteemed meritorious.’” 15

1 Pe 1:24 - KJV: For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory <1391> of man as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away:


03439 monogenhv monogenes mon-og-en-ace'
from 3441 and 1096; TDNT-4:737,606; adj
AV - only begotten 6, only 2, only child 1; 9
1) single of its kind, only
1a) used of only sons or daughters (viewed in relation to their parents)
1b) used of Christ, denotes the only begotten son of God
====
The Holy Spirit inspired at least nine usages of monogenhv in His holy writers:
Lu 7:12 - KJV: Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only <3439> son of his mother, and she was a widow: and much people of the city was with her.
Lu 8:42 - KJV: For he had one only <3439> daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went the people thronged him.
Lu 9:38 - KJV: And, behold, a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son: for he is mine only child <3439>.

Jn 1:14 - TR: eyeasameya thn doxan autou doxan wv monogenouv para patrov plhrhv caritov kai alhyeiav
- KJV: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten <3439> of the Father,) full of grace and truth.
- NIV: …the glory of THE ONE AND ONLY Son…
- NETNT: …the glory of the Father's ONE-AND-ONLYg Son…
g- 14 The Greek word for “one-and-only” can also mean His “one-of-a-kind” (“unique”) or “only-begotten”; see MONOGENES, on page 542. [below]
Jn 1:18 - KJV: No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten <3439> Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.
Jn 3:16 - KJV: For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten <3439> Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
- NETNT: For God loved the world so much that He gave His one-and-only e Son, so that everyone who believes in Him would not perish but have everlasting life.
e- 16 The Greek word for “one-and-only” can also mean His “one-of-a-kind” (“unique”) or “only-begotten”; see MONOGENES, on page 542. [below]

Jn 3:18 - KJV: He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten <3439> Son of God.

He 11:17 - KJV: By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten <3439> son,

1 Jn 4:9 - KJV: In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten <3439> Son into the world, that we might live through him.

6. Monogenes – summary notes:
Greek has two words meaning “to beget,” one with the stem of genn- (double n) the other with gin- (or gen- past tense). [single n]
Genn- has only one meaning: “to beget” Double -nn makes it unlikely that monogenes comes from this stem.
Gen- more likely the root of monogenes. Two meanings of Gen-
1) “to come into existence, to be born / begotten”
2) “to be, to exist”
This stem used twice to refer to Jesus’ birth as a human being (Romans 1:3; Galatians 4:4), but never regarding Jesus being “begotten” of the Father.
Romans 1:3 – regarding his Son, who as to his human nature (tou genomenou) was a descendant of David,
Galatians 4:4 – But when the time had fully come, God sent his Son, born (genomenon ek gunaikov genomenon upo nomon) of a woman, born under law,
Question: Does -genes mean “begotten” / “existing”?
NT use of monogenes (gen- w/single n):
Luke – 3x for the “only” child of widow of Nain (7:12), daughter of Jairus (8:42), man’s demon-possessed son (9:38) - each called “monogenes” child.
Hebrews – Isaac called Abraham’s “monogenes” son (11:17).
Most translations, incl. KJV translate these four references: “only,” not “only-begotten.”
John – 5x (1:14,18; 3:16,18; 1 Jn 4:9) – in all five either translation will work: “only-begotten” / “only-existing” (i.e., “one-and-only,” “the only-one-there-is,” “one-of-a-kind,” “unique”).
Since only John uses monogenes exculsively for Jesus, we cannot say for sure which translation is correct, because either fits the context and usage of the rest of the NT.
Ecumenical Creeds’ use of monogenes:
Nicene Creed – confesses Christians believe that Jesus was “begotten of the Father from all eternity” (the eternal generation of Christ). This is true even without translating monogenes as “only-begotten.” [The Church does not base its beliefs and teachings on questionable translations!] “Every passage in Scripture which refers to God as the Father of Jesus (e.g., 1 Pt 1:3; 1 Th 1:1) and to Jesus as the Father’s Son (e.g., Ro 1:3; 8:32; 1 Jn 1:7) teaches that the Son derives His essence from the Father through the eternal generation,16 not through His human birth.”
The German Nicene Creed translates monogenes with “einig” (“only”).
Apostles’ Creed – Greek uses monogenes which is translated into English as “only,” Latin as “unicus,” and German as “einig.”
“From this it is clear that monogenes has not always been translated with “only-begotten” in the history of the Christian church.”
NETNT resolution:
In the four passages [above] where monogenes does not refer to Jesus, NETNT translates: “only.”
In the five passages of John [listed above] where monogenes does refer to Jesus, NETNT translates: “one-and only” and includes a footnote of the possible meaning “the only-existing” (“one-and-only,” “the only-one-there-is,” “one-of-a-kind,” or “unique”), or possibly the special meaning “only-begotten.” 17 [M.C. 12/23/1996]
03962 pathr pater pat-ayr'
apparently a root word; TDNT-5:945,805; n m
AV - Father 268, father 150; 419
1) generator or male ancestor
1a) either the nearest ancestor: father of the corporeal nature, natural fathers, both parents
1b) a more remote ancestor, the founder of a family or tribe, progenitor of a people, forefather: so Abraham is called, Jacob and David
1b1) fathers, i.e., ancestors, forefathers, founders of a nation
1c) one advanced in years, a senior
2) metaph.
2a) the originator and transmitter of anything
2a1) the authors of a family or society of persons animated by the same spirit as himself
2a2) one who has infused his own spirit into others, who actuates and governs their minds
2b) one who stands in a father's place and looks after another in a paternal way
2c) a title of honour
2c1) teachers, as those to whom pupils trace back the knowledge and training they have received
2c2) the members of the Sanhedrin, whose prerogative it was by virtue of the wisdom and experience in which they excelled, to take charge of the interests of others
3) God is called the Father
3a) of the stars, the heavenly luminaries, because he is their creator, upholder, ruler
3b) of all rational and intelligent beings, whether angels or men, because he is their creator, preserver, guardian and protector
3b1) of spiritual beings and of all men
3c) of Christians, as those who through Christ have been exalted to a specially close and intimate relationship with God, and who no longer dread him as a stern judge of sinners, but revere him as their reconciled and loving Father
3d) the Father of Jesus Christ, as one whom God has united to himself in the closest bond of love and intimacy, made acquainted with his purposes, appointed to explain and carry out among men the plan of salvation, and made to share also in his own divine nature
3d1) by Jesus Christ himself
3d2) by the apostles
====
Lu 2:49 - TR: …en toiv tou patrov mou dei einai me
- KJV: And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business <3962>?
- NIV: “Why were you searching for me?” he asked. “Didn’t you know I had to be IN MY FATHER’S HOUSE?”
- NETNT: … “Didn’t you realize that I must be in My Father’s House?” p
p - 49 Or “about My Father’s affairs?” Greek is close to English: “in My Father’s.”
Lord's Prayer: “Our Father, who art in heaven...” (Luther’s Small Catechism)
“What does this mean? With these words God tenderly invites us to believe that he is our true Father and that we are his true children, so that we may pray to him as boldly and confidently as dear children ask their dear father.”
Luther reflects this beautiful concept by translating the Address: “Vater unser, der du bist im Himmel…,” thus using the familiar du, rather than the polite and formal, Sie sind… for the 2nd person singular address.
Likewise Luther translates the simple prayer of Romans 8:15: “Abba, lieber Vater…,” as we might say, “Father dear….” [M.C. 5/8/1999]
Related Passage:
Hebrews 4:15f – For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are – yet was without sin. Let us then approach the throne of grace with confidence, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need.


04134 plhrhv pleres play'-race
from 4130; TDNT-6:283,867; adj
AV - full 17; 17
1) full, i.e. filled up (as opposed to empty) 1a) of hollow vessels
1b) of a surface, covered in every part
1c) of the soul, thoroughly permeated with
2) full, i.e., complete 2a) lacking nothing, perfect
====
The Holy Spirit inspired His holy writers to use plhrhv at least eight times in the Gospels including:
Jn 1:14 - NIV: “...FULL of grace and truth.”
Also of the baskets “full” after the feeding of the 5,000 and again after the feeding of the 4,000.
Also of Jesus “full” of the Holy Spirit after His baptism by John in the Jordan River (Luke 4:1) another instance of the Christian Church’s “one baptism” (Ephesians 4:5) in which the Holy Spirit is given. [M.C. 3/2/2001]

Ac 6:3,5,8; 7:55 – of deacons, incl. Stephen “FULL of faith and the Holy Spirit.”
Ac 9:36 – of Tabitha, Dorcas “FULL of good works....”(KJV), “always doing good and helping the poor” (NIV).
Ac 11:24 – of Barnabas “FULL of the Holy Spirit and faith.”
Ac 13:10 – of Elymas the sorcerer “FULL of all kinds of deceit and trickery.”
Ac 19:28 – Ephesians “FULL of wrath” (KJV), “furious” (NIV) re. Artemis their idol goddess.

2 Jn 8 - NIV: Watch out that you do not lose what you have worked for, but that you may be rewarded FULLY.
These references remind us of the Good Shepherd’s care: “My cup overflows” (Psalm 23:5), and one of the Apostle Paul’s favorite words to describe the goodness of God in and upon His people: perisseuw – “overflowing, bountiful,” etc. [M.C. 12/23/1996]


05485 cariv charis khar'-ece
from 5463; TDNT-9:372,1298; n f
AV - grace 130, favour 6, thanks 4, thank 4, thank + 2192 3, pleasure 2, misc 7; 156
1) grace
1a) that which affords joy, pleasure, delight, sweetness, charm, loveliness: grace of speech
2) good will, loving-kindness, favour
2a) of the merciful kindness by which God, exerting his holy influence upon souls, turns them to Christ, keeps, strengthens, increases them in Christian faith, knowledge, affection, and kindles them to the exercise of the Christian virtues
3) what is due to grace
3a) the spiritual condition of one governed by the power of divine grace
3b) the token or proof of grace, benefit 3b1) a gift of grace
3b2) benefit, bounty
4) thanks, (for benefits, services, favours), recompense, reward
====
The simplest meaning: “undeserved love,” “undeserved favor.” Throughout the Holy Scriptures God makes it clear that human beings can do nothing to make themselves worthy or deserving of “grace.” Otherwise it is no longer “grace,” but works. (Cf. Romans 4:5). [M.C. 6/7/2004]
God’s grace in the Christmas story, filling Jesus:
Lu 1:30 - NIV: ...Do not be afraid, Mary, you have found FAVOR with God.
- Literal: ...you have found GRACE with God.
Lu 2:40 - NIV: And the child [Jesus] grew and became strong; he was filled with wisdom, and the GRACE of God was upon him.
Lu 2:52 - NIV: And Jesus grew in wisdom and stature, and in FAVOR [GRACE] with God and men.
Lu 4:22 - NIV: All [in Nazareth] spoke well of him and were amazed at the GRACIOUS words that came from his lips....
- Literal: ...at the words of GRACE which were coming from his mouth....
Jesus shows how far short of grace we fall:
Lu 6:32ff - Literal: And if you love those who love you, what sort of GRACE for you is [that]? Also indeed the sinners love those who love them. 33 And if you do good those who do good you, what sort of GRACE to you is [that]? Even the sinners do the same. 34 And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what sort of GRACE to you [is that]? Even sinners lend to sinners in order to receive back the equal things.
Jesus again points out that His grace toward His disciples is not a matter of works or of something He owes them because of their hard work:
Lu 17:9 - NIV: Would he thank [have GRACE to] the servant because he did what he was told to do? [Read Jesus’ conclusion v.10.]

Jn 1:14ff - KJV: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace <5485> and truth….16 And of his fulness have all we received, and grace <5485> for grace <5485>. 17 For the law was given by Moses, but grace <5485> and truth came by Jesus Christ.


00225 alhyeia aletheia al-ay'-thi-a
from 227; TDNT-1:232,37; n f
AV - truth 107, truly + 1909 1, true 1, verity 1; 110
1) objectively
1a) what is true in any matter under consideration
1a1) truly, in truth, according to truth
1a2) of a truth, in reality, in fact, certainly
1b) what is true in things appertaining to God and the duties of man, moral and religious truth
1b1) in the greatest latitude
1b2) the true notions of God which are open to human reason without his supernatural intervention
1c) the truth as taught in the Christian religion, respecting God and the execution of his purposes through Christ, and respecting the duties of man, opposing alike to the superstitions of the Gentiles and the inventions of the Jews, and the corrupt opinions and precepts of false teachers even among Christians
2) subjectively
2a) truth as a personal excellence
2a1) that candour of mind which is free from affection, pretence, simulation, falsehood, deceit
====
Jn 1:14f - KJV: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth <225>….17 For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth <225> came by Jesus Christ.
- NIV: …full of grace and TRUTH…
Application: Jesus is not like so many in our day who tell only as much truth as they absolutely must. Jesus is filled up and overflowing with truth. Truth is all He speaks. In fact, truth is His essence. (See John 14:6 below.) [M.C. 12/23/1998]

Jn 4:23f - KJV: But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth <225>: for the Father seeketh such to worship him. 24 God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth <225>.
Jn 5:33 - KJV: Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth <225>.
Jn 8:31f - Literal: If you remain (menw) in the word which is mine, truly disciples of mine you are, and you will know (experientially – ginwskw) the TRUTH, and the TRUTH will make you free.
Application: Our difficulty in this “post-modern” age is to reach a new generation raised on Friedrich Nietzsche’s nihilist dictum that “there are no facts, only interpretations.” Gospel outreach
is made more difficult because most churches maintain that theology is “just a matter of interpretation.” In seeking new ways to communicate God’s ancient and eternal truth, we dare not forget that the Gospel itself is “the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes” (Romans 1:16). Rather than obsessing on the latest arguments and rationalizations, we need to keep proclaiming God’s objective “truth” to all who have not yet gone where Nietzsche chose to spend eternity. [M.C. 1/10/2002]
Illustration: One Lutheran pastor laughed as he recalled trying to explain the scientific holes in evolution to a world renowned Chinese geophysicist. Finally she stopped him. “Pastor, you cannot teach me anything about science. Just teach me about Jesus.” [M.C. 12/24/2004]
Jn 14:6 - KJV: Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth <225>, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.
- NIV: Jesus answered, “I am the way and the TRUTH and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.”
“It’s about Jesus. Our world today offers an extensive menu of spiritual choices, gods of every shape, size, and substance. There are the tempting appetizers of self-absorption and self-serving demands. There are the main courses of the eastern religions, homegrown cults, modern day gnosticism, and contemporary paganism. There are the side dishes of materialism, hedonism, and an obsession for personal fame and fortune. There are the desserts of over-indulgence and over-commitment. Jesus is the answer to the world’s man-made menu of spiritual choices. He alone is the Way, the Truth, and the Life!” 18
Jn 18:37f - KJV: Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth <225>. Every one that is of the truth <225> heareth my voice. 38 Pilate saith unto him, What is truth <225>? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all.
Application: The fact that Pilate’s question is the last of John’s twenty Gospel usages of alhyeia indicates that Nietzsche’s nihilism (See on 8:31f above.) is nothing new. What a shame for all the world’s “original thinkers” that it was already true 1000 years before Christ that “there is nothing new under the sun” (Ecclesiastes 1:9). [M.C. 10/29/2001]

1 Jn 1:6 - NIV: If we claim to have fellowship with him yet walk in darkness, we lie and do not live by the TRUTH.
1 Jn 3:18f - KJV: My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth <225>. 19 And hereby we know that we are of the truth <225>, and shall assure our hearts before him.
1 Jn 4:6 - NIV: We are from God, and whoever knows God listens to us; but whoever is not from God does not listen to us. This is how we recognize the Spirit of TRUTH and the spirit of falsehood.
Once again the Holy Spirit shows the lie behind the modern fallacy that the “truth is relative” and therefore cannot really be known. [M.C. 5/1/1997]



15 iwannhv marturei peri autou kai kekragen legwn outov hn on eipon o opisw mou ercomenov emprosyen mou gegonen oti prwtov mou hn

1:15 - ¶ John <2491> bare witness <3140> (5719) of <4012> him <846>, and <2532> cried <2896> (5754), saying <3004> (5723), This <3778> was he <2258> (5713) of whom <3739> I spake <2036> (5627), He that cometh <2064> (5740) after <3694> me <3450> is preferred <1096> (5754) before <1715> me <3450>: for <3754> he was <2258> (5713) before <4413> me <3450>.

02491 Ioannhv Ioannes ee-o-an'-nace
of Hebrew origin 03110 Nnxwy; ; n pr m
AV - Jn (the Baptist) 92, Jn (the apostle) 36, Jn (Mark) 4, Jn (the chief priest) 1; 133
John = "Jehovah is a gracious giver"
1) John the Baptist was the son of Zacharias and Elisabeth, the forerunner of Christ. By order of Herod Antipas he was cast into prison and afterwards beheaded.
2) John the apostle, the writer of the Fourth Gospel, son of Zebedee and Salome, brother of James the elder. He is that disciple who (without mention by name) is spoken of in the Fourth Gospel as especially dear to Jesus and according to the traditional opinion is the author of the book of Revelation.
3) John surnamed Mark, the companion of Barnabas and Paul #Ac 12:12.
4) John a certain man, a member of the Sanhedrin #Ac 4:6.


03140 marturew martureo mar-too-reh'-o
from 3144; TDNT-4:474,564; v
AV - bear witness 25, testify 19, bear record 13, witness 5, be a witness 2, give testimony 2, have a good report 2, misc 11; 79
1) to be a witness, to bear witness, i.e., to affirm that one has seen or heard or experienced something, or that he knows it because taught by divine revelation or inspiration
1a) to give (not to keep back) testimony
1b) to utter honourable testimony, give a good report
1c) conjure, implore
====
Total number of usages in the Synoptics = three passages:
Mt 23:31 - KJV: Wherefore ye be witnesses <3140> unto yourselves, that ye are the children of them which killed the prophets.
Lu 4:22 - KJV: And all bare <3140> him witness <3140>, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son?
Lu 11:48 - KJV: Truly ye bear witness <3140> that ye allow the deeds of your fathers: for they indeed killed them, and ye build their sepulchres.

In John usage of marturew = thirty-one passages. The strong witnessing character of John’s Gospel is especially evident in his last two usages included below:
Jn 1:7ff - KJV: The same came for a witness, to bear witness <3140> of the Light, that all men through him might believe. 8 He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness <3140> of that Light. 15 John [the Baptizer] bare witness <3140> of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was before me….32 And John bare record <3140>, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him….34 And I saw, and bare record <3140> that this is the Son of God.

Jn 1:7 - Greek: outov hlyen eiv marturian ina marturhsh peri tou fwtov ina pantev pisteuswsin di autou
- NIV: he came as a WITNESS to testify concerning that light…
- NETNT: He came TO TESTIFY, that is, to testify about the Light …
- Literal: This one came into a testifying <3141>, in order that HE MIGHT TESTIFY about the light, in order that everyone might believe through him.
Jn 15:26f - KJV: But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify <3140> of me: 27 And ye also shall bear witness <3140>, because ye have been with me from the beginning.
Jn 19:35 - KJV: And he that saw it bare record <3140>, and his record is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe.
Jn 21:24 - KJV: This is the disciple which testifieth <3140> of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true.

The Holy Spirit inspired John to use marturew at least ten times in his 1st and 3rd Epistles, not at all in the 2nd. The intensity of his witness is especially evident in the 1st Epistle of John which begins with this point (1:2), hits it again midstream (4:14), and ends with a flourish of testimony to Christ’s divinity (5:6-10) all the way to the last verse:
1 Jn 1:2 - KJV: (For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness <3140>, and shew unto you that eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us;)
1 Jn 4:14 - KJV: And we have seen and do testify <3140> that the Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world.
1 Jn 5:6-10 - KJV: This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ; not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that beareth witness <3140>, because the Spirit is truth. 7 For there are three that bear record <3140> in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost: and these three are one. 8 And there are three that bear witness <3140> in earth, the Spirit, and the water, and the blood: and these three agree in one. 9 If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater: for this is the witness of God which he hath testified <3140> of his Son. 10 He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself: he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because he believeth not the record that God gave <3140> of his Son.

The horizontal fellowship aspect of marturew is the point of John’s usage in his 3rd Epistle where the testimony is of the truthfulness and love of John’s fellow believers in Jesus:
3 Jn 1:3ff - KJV: For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified <3140> of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth….6 Which have borne witness <3140> of thy charity before the church: whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well:…12 Demetrius hath good report <3140> of all men, and of the truth itself: yea, and we also bear record <3140>; and ye know that our record is true.
- NIV: It gave me great joy to have some brothers come and TELL ABOUT your faithfulness to the truth and how you continue to walk in the truth….6 They HAVE TOLD the church about your love. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner worthy of God….12 Demetrius IS WELL SPOKEN OF by everyone—and even by the truth itself. We also speak well of him, and you know that our testimony is true.

The Holy Spirit inspired John to use marturew at least three times in Revelation:
Re 1:2 - KJV: Who bare record <3140> of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of all things that he saw.
Re 22:16f - KJV: I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify <3140> unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star….20 He which testifieth <3140> these things saith, Surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus.


02896 krazw krazo krad'-zo
a primary word; TDNT-3:898,465; v
AV - cry 40, cry out 19; 59
1) to croak 1a) of the cry of a raven
1b) hence, to cry out, cry aloud, vociferate
1c) to cry or pray for vengeance
2) to cry 2a) cry out aloud, speak with a loud voice
====
Mt 27:50 - NIV: Jesus, when he HAD CRIED again with a loud voice, yielded up the ghost.

The Holy Spirit inspired Luke to use krazw at least four times:
Lu 4:41 - KJV: And devils also came out of many, crying out <2896>, and saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God. And he rebuking them suffered them not to speak: for they knew that he was Christ.
Lu 9:39 - KJV: And, lo, a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out <2896>; and it teareth him that he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth from him.
Lu 18:39 - KJV: And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried <2896> so much the more, Thou Son of David, have mercy on me.
Lu 19:40 - KJV: And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that, if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out <2896>.

The Holy Spirit inspired John to use krazw at least six times:
Jn 1:15 - KJV: John bare witness of him, and cried <2896>, saying, This was he of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was before me.
Jn 7:28f - KJV: Then cried <2896> Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and ye know whence I am: and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not….37 In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried <2896>, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink.
Jn 12:13f - KJV: Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried <2896>, Hosanna: Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord….44 Jesus cried <2896> and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me.
Jn 19:12 - KJV: And from thenceforth Pilate sought to release him: but the Jews cried out <2896>, saying, If thou let this man go, thou art not Caesar’s friend: whosoever maketh himself a king speaketh against Caesar.

Ro 8:15 - NIV: And by him we CRY, Abba, Father.
- NETNT: ...by which we CALL OUT, Abba, Father!


02036 epw epo ep’-o
a primary verb (used only in the definite past tense, the others being borrowed from 2046, 4483, and 5346); ; v
AV - say 859, speak 57, tell 41, command 8, bid 5, misc 6, vr say 1; 977
1) to speak, say


02064 ercomai erchomai er'-khom-ahee
middle voice of a primary verb (used only in the present and imperfect tenses, the others being supplied by a kindred [middle voice] eleuyomai eleuthomai el-yoo'-thom-ahee, or [active] elyw eltho el'-tho, which do not otherwise occur); TDNT-2:666,257; v
AV - come 616, go 13, misc 13, vr come 1; 643
1) to come
1a) of persons
1a1) to come from one place to another, and used both of persons arriving and of those returning
1a2) to appear, make one's appearance, come before the public
2) metaph.
2a) to come into being, arise, come forth, show itself, find place or influence
2b) be established, become known, to come (fall) into or unto
3) to go, to follow one
====
Ga 4:4 - KJV: But when the fulness of the time was come <2064>, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law,
Application: For all of us who believe that the Prophets were inspired by God the Holy Spirit to foretell the coming of the Christ, ercomai cannot mean a mechanical or automatic coming as if
it came about by chance. We clearly see God’s hand in the Pax Romana which to this day has never been duplicated, not even by the European Union of this new millennium. Nor has there ever been another power like the Roman Empire that spread its own language (Latin) for jurisprudence, but popularized another (Greek) for commerce and the arts. The Romans so admired Greek culture that they extended the influence of Alexander the Great and his conquering Greeks from Macedonia all over the western world. Both of these powers were clearly prophesied by Daniel in his vision of the four beasts (Daniel 7). Not even the most imaginative negative critics can postdate this vision to the events which it clearly foretold. With the eyes of faith we marvel at the way God brought about the birth of His Son at just the right time in history, which truly is His-story of bringing salvation to the fallen sons of Adam. [M.C. 12/23/2003]
Application: It is also intriguing to see so many parallels in our day, not only in the shameless wickedness of our culture, but in the kindness of God who communicates His
love to millions with the nearly universal English language. Thanks primarily to computers and commerce, English has more vocables than any other language on earth – admittedly borrowed from other languages, but still considered English. The closest runner up is French with roughly 2/3 as many vocables. At the Bible Institute (Biblicum) in Sweden, conservative Lutheran pastors from all over Europe can hold classes together in English, even though their mother tongue varies considerably. Likewise, with the Confessional Lutheran Conference, papers can be delivered and meetings conducted in English because it is universally taught in most countries today. Man does all this to make money and gain power. God does it to save more souls by communicating the Gospel announcement of sins-forgiven in the priceless blood of Jesus. As in the turn of the millennia from B.C. to A.D., the Holy Spirit is working extra hard because for the second and final time, Christ is coming soon! [M.C. 5/27/2004]


03694 opisw opiso op-is'-o
from the same as 3693 with enclitic of direction; TDNT-5:289,702; adv
AV - after 22, behind 6, back + 1519 + 3588 5, back 1, follow 1, backward + 1519 + 3588 1; 36
1) back, behind, after, afterwards 1a) of place: things that are behind
1b) of time: after
====
Mt 16:23 - KJV: But he turned, and said unto Peter, Get thee behind <3694> me, Satan: thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men.
Mt 16:24 - KJV: Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after <3694> me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.

Mark 1:17 - NIV: “Come, follow me,” Jesus said, “and I will make you fishers of men.”
Application: Sometimes opisw is not translated because it simply means behind and would be redundant in English since the thought is already pictured in the verb “follow.” We cannot
“follow” in front of someone, though our sinful natures are constantly trying to take the lead instead of getting behind Jesus. [M.C. 1/22/2000]

Jn 6:66 - TR: ek toutou polloi aphlyon twn mayhtwn autou eiv ta opisw
- NETNT: After this many of His disciples went BACK TO THEIR OLD LIFE…
- Literal: From this many of the disciples of his went back into the things [of life, thought, the heart, spiritual matter – all things] BACKWARDS and no longer with him walked about.
Application: They were His disciples. They had believed. In faith they had begun a life of sanctification as shown by their following Jesus and hearing His Word. But our
sanctification is always like climbing a mountain too steep to stop. The believer must keep growing, climbing higher and higher into the things of the Spirit and the holy life God gives. Otherwise, he will be falling backwards. There is no stopping along the way in our sanctified life. And once the Holy Spirit has brought us to faith, He wants us to always be cooperating in His sanctifying efforts, growing through Word and sacraments. (Ephesians 4:30; 2 Peter 3:18) [M.C. 1/22/2000]


01715 emprosyen emprosthen em'-pros-then
from 1722 and 4314; ; adv
AV - before 41, in (one's) sight 2, of 1, against 1, in the sight of 1, in the presence of 1, at 1; 48
1) in front, before
1a) before, i.e., in that local region which is in front of a person or thing
1b) before, in the presence of, i.e., opposite to, over against one
1c) before, in the sight of
1d) before, denoting rank
====
Since an adverb does not take an object, this word also seems to be used as a prepostion in sentences such as John 1:30 (below) where we have emprosyen mou – literally: “before me.” [M.C. 10/23/1999]

Jn 1:30 - NIV: …A man who comes after me HAS SURPASSED me because he was before me.’
- NETNT: …A Man is coming after me who RANKS ABOVE me because He existed before me.

Php 3:13 - NIV: …straining toward WHAT IS AHEAD,
CN: “those things ahead” – listed in vv.9 11.


04413 prwtov protos pro'-tos
contracted superlative of 4253; TDNT-6:865,965; adj
AV - first 84, chief 9, first day 2, former 2, misc 7; 104
1) first in time or place 1a) in any succession of things or persons
2) first in rank 2a) influence, honour
2b) chief
2c) principal
3) first, at the first



16 kai ek tou plhrwmatov autou hmeiv pantev elabomen kai carin anti caritov

1:16 - And <2532> of <1537> his <846> fulness <4138> have <2983> <0> all <3956> we <2249> received <2983> (5627), and <2532> grace <5485> for <473> grace <5485>.

04138 plhrwma pleroma play'-ro-mah
from 4137; TDNT-6:298,867; n n
AV - fulness 13, full 1, fulfilling 1, which is put in to fill up 1, pierce that filled up 1; 17
1) that which is (has been) filled
1a) a ship inasmuch as it is filled (i.e. manned) with sailors, rowers, and soldiers
1b) in the NT, the body of believers, as that which is filled with the presence, power, agency, riches of God and of Christ
2) that which fills or with which a thing is filled
2a) of those things which a ship is filled, freight and merchandise, sailors, oarsmen, soldiers
2b) completeness or fulness of time
3) fulness, abundance
4) a fulfilling, keeping
====
Ga 4:4 - KJV: When The FULLNESS of time was come....
- NIV: But when the time had FULLY come, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under law....
“The time for Christ’s coming was most opportune. more than a century before his birth, the Scriptures of the Old Testament had been translated into the Greek language, known as the Septuagint (LXX). The Greek language was now understood and used by a large part of the world. Thus God had prepared the way for proclaiming the Christmas tidings of great joy to all people.
“The precise time of Christ’s coming was most opportune for yet another reason. Socially, politically and morally the world of that day had degenerated to the point where even heathen philosophers acknowledged that it was beyond repair. Idolatry was rampant. Morality had degenerated into shameless violence and luxury. The sanctity of marriage was no longer recognized and sexual sins were commonplace. Judgment was perverted and might was right. Spiritual darkness covered the earth: see Is 60:2. Like the world about it, the worship of the true God had degenerated into mere formalism. God’s laws had been set aside, and those who were supposed to be the religious leaders of the people were teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. Only a small remnant of the faithful remained: cp Mk 7:5 13; Lk 19:45f....” 19
Application: One cannot help seeing the similarities to our age. Christmas email greetings from Ukraine by a Pastor, kind enough to write them in English, remind me that ours has
become the language of commerce and communication all over the world just as Greek was in the days before Christ came the first time. Looking at the same moral decay in our society and the degeneracy of the visible “Christian” church on earth, the time surely is ripe for Christ to come again to judge the living and the dead by whether or not they put their trust in Him (John 3:16-21). These observations comfort and compel us to “not give up meeting together, as some are in the habit of doing, but let us encourage one another—and all the more as you see the Day approaching.” (Hebrews 10:25 NIV) [M.C. 12/23/2003]

Ep 1:23 - NIV: [v.22 ...for the church,] which is his body, the FULNESS of him who fills everything in every way.

Col 1:19 - KJV: For it pleased the Father that in him should all fulness <4138> dwell;
Col 2:9 - KJV: For in him dwelleth all the fulness <4138> of the Godhead bodily.
In the two God-inspired usages of plhrwma in his letter to the Colossians, Paul refers to “the fullness of the deity” living in Jesus Christ “in bodily form,” i.e., Jesus Christ is true God with all the divine attributes (omniscience, omnipresence, omnipotence, eternal, loving, etc.) present and alive in Him to be seen by all. In Christ, the Triune God – Father, Son and Holy Spirit – makes Himself visibly known. [M.C. 11/25/1995]


03956 pav pas pas
including all the forms of declension; TDNT-5:886,795; adj
AV - all 748, all things 170, every 117, all men 41, whosoever 31, everyone 28, whole 12, all manner of 11, every man 11, no + 3756 9, every thing 7, any 7, whatsoever 6, whosoever + 3739 + 302 3, always + 1223 3, daily + 2250 2, any thing 2, no + 3361 2, not tr 7, misc 26; 1243
1) individually 1a) each, every, any, all, the whole, everyone, all things, everything
2) collectively 2a) some of all types
++++
..." the whole world has gone after him" Did all the world go after Christ? "then went all Judea, and were baptized of him in Jordan." Was all Judea, or all Jerusalem, baptized in Jordan? "Ye are of God, little children", and the whole world lieth in the wicked one". Does the whole world there mean everybody? The words "world" and "all" are used in some seven or eight senses in Scripture, and it is very rarely the "all" means all persons, taken individually. The words are generally used to signify that Christ has redeemed some of all sorts --some Jews, some Gentiles, some rich, some poor, and has not restricted His redemption to either Jew or Gentile ... (C.H. Spurgeon from a sermon on Particular Redemption)
====
Answer to Spurgeon: The famous preacher points to obvious examples of hyperbole as when we say in English: “Everybody knows J.F.K.” We show we understand this to be intended overstatement because we do not look for someone unfamiliar with John F. Kennedy in order to accuse the speaker of dishonesty. We understand from the context what the speaker meant.
But if one were to say in a court of law, “Everyone at the plant knew the furnace was about to explode,” it would be ruled as speculation – unprovable. In each case, the context decides. And God always speaks to us in the context which He decides in His Holy Word.
Spurgeon’s argument is essentially weak because he does not produce the “seven or eight senses in Scripture” to prove that “it is very rarely the ‘all’ means all persons, taken individually” – at least they are not spelled out in the brief quote. He only looks at one other sense, the most extreme he can find, then tries to argue away universal redemption.
Spurgeon is also in error to argue that because there are some Bible examples of “all” used in hyperbole, that therefore the words “world” and “all” are “generally used to signify that Christ has redeemed some of all sorts….” As the Scripture examples below illustrate, the context decides. And when “all” people are called sinners and then “all” are said to be justified (See Romans 3:23f.), the Holy Spirit is obviously making an all-encompassing statement about individual souls – condemned sinners by nature, and forgiven souls by grace.
Universal justification / redemption is on the one hand, the ultimate expression of God’s grace and is meant to be proclaimed as fact, great and glorious Good News! On the other hand it is the greatest of tragedies that unbelief denies or scoffs at what God has done for us all in Christ. Why would the God who loved us so much as to substitute Himself for us in the Person of His Son, want to make salvation difficult? [M.C. 1/11/2000]

Application: Pav is a precious word in scripture. Imagine if it were missing from the following passages, discussed in greater detail in the exegetical remarks that follow. [M.C. 4/3/2003]
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age.” (Matthew 28:19-20 NIV)
But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his Son, purifies us from all sin. (1 John 1:7 NIV)
And he died for all, that those who live should no longer live for themselves but for him who died for them and was raised again. (2 Corinthians 5:15 NIV)
So then, no more boasting about men! All things are yours, (1 Corinthians 3:21 NIV)
And my God will meet all your needs according to his glorious riches in Christ Jesus. (Philippians 4:19 NIV)

Mt 7:24f - KJV: Therefore whosoever <3956> heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock:…26 And every one <3956> that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand:
- NIV, NASB: Therefore EVERYONE who hears these words of mine….
Application: Jesus is making a sweeping, general promise for believers and unbelievers alike of what happens in our lives based on our attitude toward God’s Word. Everything hinges on that,
for every human being without exception. A church-going, congregational president who refuses to attend Bible study because, “You can get too much of that stuff, you know?” will eventually find his family in shambles. But the humble hearted Christian who wants so much to hear God’s Word that he attends classes even with a faithful pastor who is not the most dynamic and interesting of teachers, that Christian will be blessed through God’s Word. He will be better equipped and joyfully empowered by the Gospel to love his wife and family and to serve those around him. And if his wife and family will attend with him, they too will be blessed by building on the solid foundation which is Christ, the Word of God Incarnate. [M.C. 6/2/1999]
Application: Faithful preachers need to point out again and again that the effectiveness of a congregation’s ministry is directly proportional to how many of its leaders faithfully attend
Bible Class. Likewise in the family, sad experience has also shown that if the parents, especially the father, does not attend Bible Class, his children rarely will either. One study showed that for every mother who attended worship and Bible Class, 25% of the children did as grownups. However, if the father attended worship and Bible Class, 75% of the children grew up to be faithful attenders. Not surprisingly, the Lord lays the responsibility of training children directly on the father (Ephesians 6:4), while referring to it in more of a general way for the wife of noble character (Proverbs 31:26). [M.C. 6/7/2001]

Lu 2:10ff - KJV: And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all <3956> people….18 And all <3956> they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. 19 But Mary kept all <3956> these things, and pondered them in her heart. 20 And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things <3956> that they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.
Lu 13:27 - KJV: But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are; depart from me, all <3956> ye workers of iniquity.
- NIV: Away from me, ALL you evildoers!
- Literal: Stand away from me, ALL you who keep working unrighteousness.
Related Passage: Hebrews 11:6 – Without faith it is impossible to please God.

Jn 3:15f - NIV: that EVERYONE who believes in him may have eternal life. 16 For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that WHOEVER believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.
How blessed we are that Spurgeon’s limit (above) is not that of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. When Jesus says, “All,” He means, “All.” Otherwise, how could even the believers be sure of their salvation? [M.C. 6/15/2000]

Jn 17:2ff - KJV: As thou hast given him power over all <3956> flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as <3956> thou hast given him….7 Now they have known that all things <3956> whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee….10 And all <3956> mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them….21 That they all <3956> may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.
The four Strong-numbered usages of pav in Jesus’ High Priestly Prayer (John 17) show Jesus is using the word in the normal sense without any exceptions. This includes verse 21. The visible church of Christ on earth may look fragmented by denominations and human opinion. But the invisible Church of Jesus Christ, the body of all believers in Him as their Savior, is completely unified. The Lord’s Apostle Paul echoes this in Ephesians 4: “There is one body and one Spirit— just as you were called to one hope when you were called— one Lord, one faith, one baptism; one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.” (Ephesians 4:4-6 NIV) Jesus’ prayer has been answered in the affirmative. And this will at last be seen by all when we’re home in heaven with our Lord. [M.C. 5/18/2004]


02983 lambanw lambano lam-ban'-o
a prolonged form of a primary verb, which is use only as an alternate in certain tenses; TDNT-4:5,495; v
AV - receive 133, take 106, have 3, catch 3, not tr 1, misc 17; 263
1) to take
1a) to take with the hand, lay hold of, any person or thing in order to use it
1a1) to take up a thing to be carried
1a2) to take upon oneself
1b) to take in order to carry away
1b1) without the notion of violence, i, e to remove, take away
1c) to take what is one's own, to take to oneself, to make one's own
1c1) to claim, procure, for oneself
1c1a) to associate with oneself as companion, attendant
1c2) of that which when taken is not let go, to seize, to lay hold of, apprehend
1c3) to take by craft (our catch, used of hunters, fisherman, etc.), to circumvent one by fraud
1c4) to take to oneself, lay hold upon, take possession of, i.e. to appropriate to oneself
1c5) catch at, reach after, strive to obtain
1c6) to take a thing due, to collect, gather (tribute)
1d) to take
1d1) to admit, receive
1d2) to receive what is offered
1d3) not to refuse or reject
1d4) to receive a person, give him access to oneself,
1d41) to regard any one's power, rank, external circumstances, and on that account to do some injustice or neglect something
1e) to take, to choose, select
1f) to take beginning, to prove anything, to make a trial of, to experience
2) to receive (what is given), to gain, get, obtain, to get back
For Synonyms see entry 5877
====
A.G. – 1. (more actively) ‘take’  a. ‘take in the hand, take hold of, grasp’...g. ‘make one’s own, apprehend/comprehend’ mentally/spiritually (class.) of the mystical apprehension of Christ...’I have made (him) my own’ Phil 3:12. h....2. (more passively) ‘receive, get, obtain’.... 20

Mt 10:38 - KJV: And he that taketh <2983> not his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me.
- NIV: and anyone who does not TAKE his cross and follow me is not worthy of me.
- Literal: …RECEIVE his cross…
In modern English when we speak of “receiving” something intangible such as an idea or a teaching, we can generally substitute “to accept.” Thus “receiving” and “accepting” are nearly synonymous in English. In Greek the synonym (See <5877>.) of lambanw (above) is decomai <1209>, which seems to stress more the idea of heartfelt acceptance whereas lambanw appears to be more active in reaching out to take something.
Here Jesus uses the word lambanw and will use decomai in vv.40f.
Application: As always, the Holy Spirit’s choice of words through His inspired writer is no accident. One possible explanation to help us understand Jesus’ choice of words may be that in
practical terms it is often necessary for the faithful Christian to actively take up (lambanw) his cross and follow Jesus, even if the emotions of his heart have not yet fully accepted (decomai), i.e., come to grips with, the difficulties involved. While our gracious God surely desires that we “serve the Lord with gladness” (Psalm 100:2), we also need to press on to follow our dear Savior and let our feelings catch up with our faith. [M.C. 6/30/1999]

Jn 1:12 - KJV: But as many as received <2983> him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name:
- NIV: Yet to all who RECEIVED him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God –
- NETNT: But to all who WELCOMED him, who believe in His Name, He gave the right to become children of God.
The NETNT seems too interpretive in this case. So far since v.1, the Holy Spirit has described the darkness of the world as that which could not katalambanw (v.5), and would not paralambanw (v.11) the Light. By dropping the compounding verbal prepositions (kata-, para-) now, the Holy Spirit is speaking in grace of how simply “receiving” Jesus with childlike faith is enough for one to be given the newborn power of God’s children. The Holy Spirit here explains what it means to “receive” Jesus. This is one obvious source of the Lutheran understanding of “faith” as the “receiving organ,” the hand that receives the salvation offered by God in the Gospel. [M.C. 12/23/1998]

Jn 14:17 - KJV: Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive <2983>, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.
- Literal: …whom the world is not able to RECEIVE…
Application: Since faith is the hand that receives the blessings held out by the Holy Spirit in the Gospel, the reason the world cannot receive the Holy Spirit is unbelief. It is impossible to
receive something into the hand if one’s hand is held up in protest saying, “No way! I don’t want that. I don’t need him!” [M.C. 5/8/1999]

Ro 8:15 - KJV: For ye have <2983> not received <2983> the spirit of bondage again to fear; but ye have received <2983> the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.
- NIV: For you DID not RECEIVE a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you RECEIVED the Spirit of sonship
Again the Holy Spirit through Paul stresses that our salvation is “the gift of God – not by works, so that no one can boast” (Ephesians 2:8f). [M.C. 5/22/1997]

Php 2:7 - KJV: But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him <2983> the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
Jesus’ active obedience in His State of Humiliation is stressed by the Holy Spirit’s use of lambanw here rather than decomai. Note also that Jesus is said to have taken humanity into the deity and not the other way around. This is what we confess in the properly ecumenical, i.e. universal, Athanasian Creed:
He is God, eternally begotten from the nature of the Father, and he is man, born in time from the nature of his mother, fully God, fully man, with rational soul and human flesh, equal to the Father as to his deity, less than the Father as to his humanity; and though he is both God and man, Christ is not two persons but one, one, not by changing the deity into flesh, but by taking the humanity into God….This is the true Christian faith. Whoever does not faithfully and firmly believe this cannot be saved. 21 [M.C. 12/30/2003]


05485 cariv [See above on 1:14.]
====
The simplest meaning: “undeserved love,” “undeserved favor.” Throughout the Holy Scriptures God makes it clear that human beings can do nothing to make themselves worthy or deserving of “grace.” Otherwise it is no longer “grace,” but works. (Cf. Romans 4:5). [M.C. 6/7/2004]

Jn 1:14ff - KJV: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace <5485> and truth….16 And of his fulness have all we received, and grace <5485> for grace <5485>. 17 For the law was given by Moses, but grace <5485> and truth came by Jesus Christ.
Jn 1:16 - NIV: From the fullness of his GRACE we have all received one blessing after another.
- NETNT: For all of us have received one gift of GRACE after anotherh from the fullness of His GRACE.
h- 16 Literally: “grace upon grace.”



17 oti o nomov dia mwsewv edoyh h cariv kai h alhyeia dia ihsou cristou egeneto

1:17 - For <3754> the law <3551> was given <1325> (5681) by <1223> Moses <3475>, but grace <5485> and <2532> truth <225> came <1096> (5633) by <1223> Jesus <2424> Christ <5547>.

03551 nomov nomos nom'-os
from a primary nemo (to parcel out, especially food, grazing to animals); TDNT-4:1022,646; n m
AV - law 197; 197
1) anything established, anything received by usage, a custom, a law, a command
1a) of any law whatsoever
1a1) a law or rule producing a state approved of God
1a1a) by the observance of which is approved of God
1a2) a precept or injunction
1a3) the rule of action prescribed by reason
1b) of the Mosaic law, and referring, according to the context, either to the volume of the law or to its contents
1c) the Christian religion: the law demanding faith, the moral instruction given by Christ, esp. the precept concerning love
1d) the name of the more important part (the Pentateuch), is put for the entire collection of the sacred books of the OT
For Synonyms see entry 5918
====
Mt 5:17 - NIV: Do not think that I have come to abolish the LAW or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them.

Lu 24:44 - NIV: ...the LAW of Moses, the Prophets and the Psalms.
Here the context of Jesus comforting His grieving disciples with His resurrection shows that “law” is used not in the narrow sense of legal requirements as summarized in the Ten Commandments, but in the broad sense of “the Word of God,” which the Holy Spirit inspired Moses to write in the first five books (Pentateuch) of our Bibles. This broad “Word-of-God” sense is also seen in the expression itself. “The Law of Moses” includes many Gospel promises including Genesis 3:15 as well as all the sacrifices which pointed to Christ, the ultimate Sacrifice, “the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world” (John 1:29). [M.C. 10/22/2002]

Jn 1:17 - KJV: For the law <3551> was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.
By contrasting Moses’ ­­­nomov with the “grace and truth” of Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit shows us that John is referring to God’s “law” in the narrow sense of His holy requirements which demand compliance and curse every infraction by thought, word and deed. [M.C. 12/24/2004]

Ro 3:20 - NIV: Therefore no one will be declared righteous in his sight by observing the LAW; rather, through the LAW we become conscious of sin.
The law is like a MIRROR that SOS – Shows Our Sin. [M.C. 10/04/2004]

Ga 3:24 - NIV f.n.: the LAW was put in charge until (eis) Christ came...
- Literal: So the LAW was our schoolmaster until Christ, in order that we might be declared righteous by faith;
Ga 5:18 - NIV: But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under LAW.


01325 didwmi didomi did'-o-mee
a prolonged form of a primary verb (which is used as an altern. in most of the tenses); TDNT-2:166,166; v
AV - give 365, grant 10, put 5, show 4, deliver 2, make 2, misc 25; 413
1) to give
2) to give something to someone
2a) of one's own accord to give one something, to his advantage
2a1) to bestow a gift
2b) to grant, give to one asking, let have
2c) to supply, furnish, necessary things
2d) to give over, deliver
2d1) to reach out, extend, present
2d2) of a writing
2d3) to give over to one's care, intrust, commit
2d3a) something to be administered
2d3b) to give or commit to some one something to be religiously observed
2e) to give what is due or obligatory, to pay: wages or reward
2f) to furnish, endue
3) to give
3a) to cause, profuse, give forth from oneself
3a1) to give, hand out lots
3b) to appoint to an office
3c) to cause to come forth, i.e., as the sea, death and Hell are said to give up the dead who have been engulfed or received by them
3d) to give one to someone as his own
3d1) as an object of his saving care
3d2) to give one to someone, to follow him as a leader and master
3d3) to give one to someone to care for his interests
3d4) to give one to someone to whom he already belonged, to return
4) to grant or permit one
4a) to commission
For Synonyms see entry 5836
====
Jn 6:65 - NIV: ...no one can come to me unless the Father HAS ENABLED him.
- NETNT: ...a person can come to Me only if the Father GIVES him [the power to come].
The NETNT is much closer to the Greek original and more clearly shows that coming to the Father by believing in Jesus (the only way to come - Jn 14:6) is a gift given by God. This is no surprise to anyone who believes what God says through Paul in Ephesians 2:8f. [M.C. 8/21/1997]

Ac 4:12 - KJV: Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given <1325> among men, whereby we must be saved.
CN: to dedomenon – “which stands as given” – Salvation is already accomplished so that it can be given as a free gift by God to sinners. This word points out the necessity of the revealed knowledge of God to tell us not only who the true God is, but also that He is our only Savior from sin.
Application: The “name”-reputation of Jesus as the Savior sent from God is God’s gift in and of itself. This is another evidence of salvation by grace through faith alone. God’s saving
reputation calls for faith, trust and confidence in what God has done for us. If works were required, Peter would be talking about instructions for us to obey, rather than God’s gift of Christ’s Name. This is one of many Biblical and historical ironies that the church of the anti-Christ which claims Peter as its first “pope” does not listen to Peter. [M.C. 5/2/2003]

Ro 5:5 - NIV: And hope does not disappoint us, because God has poured out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom he HAS GIVEN us.
Application: How comforting it is to remember that the Holy Spirit and all the gifts He brings (Galatians 5:22f) is Himself a Gift given by both the Father and the Son (John 15:26) through Word and
Sacraments. When we need more of the grace and wisdom He brings, we need only ask our heavenly Father from whom comes “every good and perfect gift” (James 1:5,17). Then we want to let our gracious Comforter answer our prayer by digging deeper and more earnestly into His Word of truth as treasured up in the Holy Scriptures. [M.C. 3/15/2003]
Application: Thus Jesus promises to fathers (Luke 11:11) in particular: “If you [fathers] then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!” (Luke 11:13). [M.C. 6/4/1998]

2 Co 12:7 - NIV: ...there WAS GIVEN to me a thorn in my flesh...
In humble faith Paul can see God’s grace even in a “gift” like this. [M.C. 7/2/1997]

As in 2 Corinthians 12:7 (above), Paul is speaking of his sufferings as a gift of God. They are an integral part of the management of blessings which God has conferred on Paul in his apostolic office of bringing God’s Word to the world. In his service to Christ’s church the sufferings of the Lord’s Apostle are all part of the big picture of communicating the absolute freedom of grace and mercy by faith in Jesus Christ.
Application: We pastors need to think of our sufferings as a gift as well.
In sports terms our suffering for the Gospel is like being permitted to make the sacrifice fly in baseball in order to bring a runner home from third base and win the World Series.
Our pastoral sufferings are like running the reverse in football in order to get yourself tacked by the opposing team on one side of the field so that your Super Bowl teammate can score unopposed on the other side.
There was no other way to take the beaches of Normandy in the D-Day invasion than to charge straight into the storm of war where huge casualties were expected just to secure a beachhead. But those who lived to tell the tale still consider their wounds as trophies and honor their comrades above themselves for giving “the ultimate sacrifice.”
Perhaps if we servants of the Word would think more of what others have suffered for earthly ground and fading fame, we would not be so prone to feel sorry for ourselves simply because sinners don’t appreciate pastors. Only Christ could pay “the ultimate sacrifice” to secure our eternal safety from sin, death and hell. What we suffer now is scant thanks for priceless blessings. As the writer to the Hebrews points out, “You haven’t shed any blood yet.” (Hebrews 12:4). [M.C. 6/27/2004]

1 Tm 2:6 - KJV: Who gave <1325> himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due time.
Application: Where is there a more “ultimate sacrifice” than the sinless Son of God who could have stayed in the infinite bliss of heaven, but chose instead the cross’ agony of hell,
separated as God from God for our sins, to bring us to God and give us heaven? Finite human logic cannot grasp what childlike faith receives in holy joy. [M.C. 9/30/2004]


02424 Ihsouv Iesous ee-ay-sooce'
of Hebrew origin 03091 ewvy; TDNT-3:284,360; n pr m
AV - Jesus 972, Jesus (Joshua) 2, Jesus (Justus) 1; 975
Jesus = "Jehovah is salvation"
1) Jesus, the Son of God, the Saviour of mankind, God incarnate
2) Jesus Barabbas was the captive robber whom the Jews begged Pilate to release instead of Christ
3) Joshua was the famous captain of the Israelites, Moses' successor (#Ac 7:45, Heb 4:8)
4) Jesus, son of Eliezer, one of the ancestors of Christ (#Lu 3:29)
5) Jesus, surnamed Justus, a Jewish Christian, an associate with Paul in the preaching of the gospel (#Col 4:11)
====
“Jesus” comes from the Hebrew root evy, “to save.” “Jesus” is everywhere in the Old Testament, hidden like treasure in words such as “deliverance,” “salvation,” etc. These also are translations of the Hebrew root evy which means literally: “to make a wide way.” (Cf. yliqiv <02347> re. Romans 8:35) “The Lord is my light and my salvation” (Psalm 27:1), could literally be translated: “The Lord is my light and my JESUS!” This is another example of what Jesus meant when He said, “These are the Scriptures that testify about me” (Jn 5:39). [M.C. 10/11/2003]

The first eight of Luke’s, Holy Spirit-inspired usages of Ihsouv, tell us much about our Savior:
Lu 1:31 - KJV: And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS <2424>.
Lu 2:21 - KJV: And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child, his name was called JESUS <2424>, which was so named of the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
Lu 2:27 - KJV: And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the parents brought in the child Jesus <2424>, to do for him after the custom of the law,
Lu 2:43 - KJV: And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child Jesus <2424> tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother knew not of it.
Lu 2:52 - KJV: And Jesus <2424> increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man.
Lu 3:21 - KJV: Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus <2424> also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened,
Lu 3:23 - KJV: And Jesus <2424> himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as was supposed) the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli,
Lu 4:1 - KJV: And Jesus <2424> being full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness,

Jn 20:31 - KJV: But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus <2424> is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name.
Jn 21:25 - KJV: And there are also many other things which Jesus <2424> did, the which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen.

05547 Cristov Christos khris-tos'
from 5548; TDNT-9:493,1322; adj
AV - Christ (569)
Christ = "anointed"
1) Christ was the Messiah, the Son of God
2) anointed
====
“Anointed One” = “Messiah” (Hebrew); “Christ” (Greek)

Ancient promise from the Old Testament: The “Christ” will be characterized by joy.
Ps 45:7 - NIV: You love righteousness and hate wickedness; therefore God, your God, has set you above your companions by anointing you with the oil of joy.

Fulfillment in the New Testament:
Lu 10:21 - NIV: At that time Jesus, full of joy through the Holy Spirit, said, “I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for this was your good pleasure.”
Ac 10:38 - NIV: how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and power, and how he went around doing good and healing all who were under the power of the devil, because God was with him.
This is Jesus at His baptism by John in the Jordan River (Matthew 3:13-17, S#512).

The Holy Spirit inspired John to use Cristov at least twenty times in his Gospel, indicating especially by his theme in 20:31 that this is a major emphasis as He reveals the true identity of Jesus as God’s own Christ, our Lord and Savior:
Jn 1:17 - KJV: For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ <5547>.
Jn 1:20f - KJV: And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ <5547>….25 And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ <5547>, nor Elias, neither that prophet?
Jn 1:41 - KJV: He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ <5547>.
Jn 3:28 - KJV: Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ <5547>, but that I am sent before him.
Jn 4:25ff - KJV: The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ <5547>: when he is come, he will tell us all things….29 Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ <5547>?...42 And said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ <5547>, the Saviour of the world.
Jn 6:69 - KJV: And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ <5547>, the Son of the living God.
Jn 7:26ff - KJV: But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ <5547>? 27 Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when Christ <5547> cometh, no man knoweth whence he is….31 And many of the people believed on him, and said, When Christ <5547> cometh, will he do more miracles than these which this man hath done?...41 Others said, This is the Christ <5547>. But some said, Shall Christ <5547> come out of Galilee? 42 Hath not the scripture said, That Christ <5547> cometh of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was?
Jn 9:22 - KJV: These words spake his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confess that he was Christ <5547>, he should be put out of the synagogue.
Jn 10:24 - KJV: Then came the Jews round about him, and said unto him, How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ <5547>, tell us plainly.
Jn 11:27 - KJV: She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou art the Christ <5547>, the Son of God, which should come into the world.
Jn 12:34 - KJV: The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ <5547> abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man?
Jn 17:3 - KJV: And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ <5547>, whom thou hast sent.
Jn 20:31 - KJV: But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ <5547>, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name.



18 yeon oudeiv ewraken pwpote o monogenhv uiov o wn eiv ton kolpon tou patrov ekeinov exhghsato

1:18 - No man <3762> hath seen <3708> (5758) God <2316> at any time <4455>; the only begotten <3439> Son <5207>, which <3588> is <5607> (5752) in <1519> the bosom <2859> of the Father <3962>, he <1565> hath declared <1834> (5662) him.

03708 oraw horao hor-ah'-o
properly, to stare at [cf 3700]; TDNT-5:315,706; v
AV - see 51, take heed 5, behold 1, perceive 1, not tr 1; 59
1) to see with the eyes
2) to see with the mind, to perceive, know
3) to see, i.e., become acquainted with by experience, to experience
4) to see, to look to 4a) to take heed, beware
4b) to care for, pay heed to
5) I was seen, showed myself, appeared
For Synonyms see entry 5822
====
Jn 9:37 - KJV: And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast <3708> both seen <3708> him, and it is he that talketh with thee.
ewrakav = Verb: second person, singular, perfect, active, indicative

1 Jn 4:20 - KJV: If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen <3708>, how can he love God whom he hath <3708> not seen <3708>?

He 2:8 - KJV: Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see <3708> not yet all things put under him.
SSQ2003: oraw is what you can’t help doing when you open your eyes. Blepw means a more intentional look. 22


02316 yeov theos theh'-os
of uncertain affinity; a deity, especially (with 3588) the supreme Divinity; TDNT-3:65,322; n m
AV - God 1320, god 13, godly 3, God-ward + 4214 2, misc 5; 1343
1) a god or goddess, a general name of deities or divinities
2) the Godhead, trinity
2a) God the Father, the first person in the trinity
2b) Christ, the second person of the trinity
2c) Holy Spirit, the third person in the trinity
3) spoken of the only and true God
3a) refers to the things of God
3b) his counsels, interests, things due to him
4) whatever can in any respect be likened unto God, or resemble him in any way
4a) God's representative or viceregent
4a1) of magistrates and judges
++++
Christ is called God: Jn 1:1,20:28; 1 Jn 5:20; Ro 9:5; Tm 2:13; He 1:8, etc.
====
The Holy Spirit is called God: Ac 5:3,5

Jn 20:17 - NIV: Jesus said, “Do not hold on to me, for I have not yet returned to the Father. Go instead to my brothers and tell them, ‘I am returning to my Father and your Father, to MY GOD and your God.’”
Application: This passage records Jesus’ comforting sermon to Mary Magdalene in which He first calls His disciples, “My brothers….” Now when He refers to “My God,” He also says,
“Your God.” Since Jesus paid the full debt for our sins under God’s justice, it is pure joy to think of God in such intimate terms that I am His and He is mine. God cannot punish us twice for sins He already punished on Jesus. On the resurrection side of Golgotha, Luther liked to say, “God’s justice is on our side.” A just and holy God cannot punish us again because it would dishonor Jesus for His awesome sacrifice. And with His mercy triumphing over judgment (James 2:13), God has made us His own dear children in Jesus, our Brother. [M.C. 4/03/1999]


04455 pwpote popote po’-pot-e
from 4452 and 4218; ; adv
AV - at any time 3, yet never + 3762 1, never 1, never + 3364 1; 6
1) ever, at any time
====
At the Holy Spirit’s direction, the holy writers who used pwpote were Luke and primarily John:
Lu 19:30 - KJV: Saying, Go ye into the village over against you; in the which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied, whereon yet never man sat <4455>: loose him, and bring him hither.

Jn 1:18 - KJV: No man hath seen God at any time <4455>; the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.
Jn 5:37 - KJV: And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time <4455>, nor seen his shape.
Jn 6:35 - KJV: And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never <4455> thirst.
Jn 8:33 - KJV: They answered him, We be Abraham’s seed, and were never <4455> in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free?
Application: The Jews of Jesus’ day were suffering from severe reality disconnect. They refused to admit their bondage to the Roman Empire and failed to remember how they had suffered
in the Babylonian Exile and during their cruel bondage in Egypt. Admitting our need, no matter how extreme, is the first step toward seeking help from the Lord God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob who helps Jews and Gentiles alike for Jesus’ sake. [M.C. 11/1/2001]

1 Jn 4:12 - KJV: No man hath seen God at any time <4455>. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us.


02859 kolpov kolpos kol'-pos
apparently a primary word; TDNT-3:824,452; n m
AV - bosom 5, creek 1; 6
1) the front of the body between the arms
2) the bosom of a garment, i.e., the hollow formed by the upper forepart of a rather loose garment bound by a girdle or sash, used for keeping and carrying things (the fold or pocket)
3) a bay of the sea
====
Here are the six usages of kolpov in the New Testament numbered by Strong:
Lu 6:38 - KJV: Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom <2859> . For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again.
Here kolpov is singular. (See on Luke 16:23 below.)

Lu 16:22 - TR: …apenecyhnai auton upo twn aggelwn eiv ton kolpon tou abraam…
- KJV: And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom <2859>: the rich man also died, and was buried;
- NIV: The…beggar died and the angels carried him toAbraham's SIDE.
Here kolpov is singular, but plural in the next verse:
Lu 16:23 - TR: kai en tw adh eparav touv ofyalmouv autou uparcwn en basanoiv ora ton abraam apo makroyen kai lazaron en toiv kolpoiv autou
- KJV: And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom <2859>.
- NIV: In hell…[the rich man] looked up and saw Abraham…and Lazarus by his SIDE.
Interestingly, kolpov is singular in v.22 and plural in v.23, yet both are in reference to Abraham. Luke 16:23, is, in fact, the only place in the New Testament where kolpov appears in the plural. Is this an indication of something different about our form in heaven? Perhaps we should not make too much of this since Abraham has not yet taken part in the second resurrection to receive his glorified body along with the rest of the believers. Also one must be careful not to press the details too hard in Jesus’ story. We don’t want to miss Jesus’ main point that everyone should listen to God’s Word lest they find themselves in torment with the rich man instead of in heaven with “the poor in spirit” to whom belong “the kingdom of heaven.” (Matthew 5:3) [M.C. 10/8/1998]

Jn 1:18 - KJV: No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom <2859> of the Father, he hath declared him.
Jn 13:23 - KJV: Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom <2859> one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved.
John only uses kolpov in the singular. (See Luke 16:23 above.)

Ac 27:39 - KJV: And when it was day, they knew not the land: but they discovered a certain creek <2859> with a shore, into the which they were minded, if it were possible, to thrust in the ship.
- NIV: …but they saw a BAY with a sandy beach, where they decided to run the ship aground if they could.
As elsewhere in the New Testament except in Luke 16:23 above, kolpov is used in the singular.


01834 exhgeomai exegeomai ex-ayg-eh’-om-ahee
from 1537 and 2233; TDNT-2:908,303; v
AV - declare 5, tell 1; 6
1) to lead out, be leader, go before
2) metaph., to draw out in narrative, unfold a teaching
2a) to recount, rehearse
2b) to unfold, declare
2b1) the things relating to God
2b2) used in Greek writing of the interpretation of things sacred and divine, oracles, dreams, etc.
====
Lu 24:35 - KJV: And they told <1834> what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread.

Jn 1:18 - KJV: No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared <1834> him.

Ac 10:8 - KJV: And when he had declared <1834> all these things unto them, he sent them to Joppa.
Ac 15:12f - KJV: Then all the multitude kept silence, and gave audience to Barnabas and Paul, declaring <1834> what miracles and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles by them….14 Simeon hath declared <1834> how God at the first did visit the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name.
Ac 21:19 - KJV: And when he had saluted them, he declared <1834> particularly what things God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministry.






S#339 = John 1:14 CHRISTMAS 2 Series A 01/03/1993
TLH 95
WE HAVE SEEN HIS GLORY
I. Tenting among us
II. Full of grace and truth



S#453 = John 1:16-18 CHRISTMAS SUNDAY 12/25/1994
CW 43
FILLED WITH CHRISTMAS!
I. Hungry hearts (v.16)
II. Sure hope (v.17)
III. Certain revelation (v.18)



S#558 = John 1:14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series B 12/25/1997
CW 67
WE HAVE SEEN GOD'S GLORY
I. In human flesh and blood
II. Full of grace and truth



S#996 = John 1:14-18 CHRISTMAS 2 Series A
CHRISTMAS EVE 12/24/2004
CW 68
How Can We Keep in Christmas?

Believe who He is.
Rejoice in the gifts He brings.
1 The public domain Greek is from the Textus Receptus, used by the KJV translators in 1611. It has become necessary to use this Greek text because of the instability of the Logos study system which keeps changing its copy-right protected fonts. The difficulty of purchasing and maintaining the Logos / Linguistics font-embedding rights, mandates that The Preacher’s Apprentice use The Online Bible Greek (OLBGK). For many pastors the Logos fonts show as empty boxes where the original text is supposed to be. Reading The Online Bible Greek without the accents takes a little practice, but this too will be richly blessed in Christ. If you have Logos / Libronix on your p.c., you may find it easier to cut and paste the original before each verse, print out the entire text in its original, or – the old way – use a book. [M.C. 4/01/2004]
2 Scripture take from the HOLY BIBLE, NEW INTERNATIONAL VERSION ®. NIV ®. Copyright © 1973, 1978, 1984 by International Bible Society. Used by permission of Zondervan Publishing House. All rights reserved.
3 Bente, F., Concordia Triglotta. Smalcald Articles, III, VIII, 3, 10. Milwaukee, WI: NPH, 1997.
4 Quoted in HOLY BIBLE: New Testament – New Evangelical Translation (NETNT), Second edition (January 1992), with major revisions, 15,000 copies. (Cleveland, Ohio: NETNT Publishing), 1992, p. xii. Used by permission.
5 Panning, Armin J. The People’s Bible – Romans. Milwaukee, WI: NPH, 1999, pp. 75f.
6 Kretzmann, Paul E. Popular Commentary Of The Bible. St. Louis, Missouri: CPH, 1924. NT I, p. 407.
7 Lutheran Church. Missouri Synod. (1997). Concordia Triglotta - English : The symbolic books of the Evangelical Lutheran Church. Includes Historical Introductions by F. Bente and indexes of subjects. (electronic ed.) (Page 995). Milwaukee WI: NPH. The Formula of Concord, Part II, Article VII, §61, 62.
8 Newsweek, 4/8/1996, p. 66.
9 Panning, Armin. WLQ, Vol. 97, No. 1, Winter 2000, pp.49f.
10 Luther, 20, 935 - quoted in Kretzmann, Paul E. Popular Commentary Of The Bible. St. Louis, MO: CPH, 1924. NT II, 192.
11 Kretzmann, loc. cit.
12 Kretzmann, Paul E. Popular Commentary Of The Bible. St. Louis, Missouri: CPH, 1924. NT I, p. 407.
13 Luther’s Works, American Edition. Vol. 26, p.227
14 Kretzmann, Paul E. Popular Commentary Of The Bible. St. Louis, Missouri: CPH, 1924. NT I, p. 407.
15 Sermons of Martin Luther, a.k.a. “Luther’s Postil.” John Nicholas Lenker, ed. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Baker Book House, re-printed 1988, Vol. VIII, pp. 97-99.
16NETNT footnote: Louis J. Roehm, “The Person of Christ,” The Abiding Word, ed. Theodore Laetsch (Saint Louis: CPH, 1955), I, 21. This volume also has a brief explanation of the eternal Sonship of Jesus.
17 HOLY BIBLE: New Testament – New Evangelical Translation (NETNT), Second edition (January 1992), with major revisions, 15,000 copies. (Cleveland, Ohio: NETNT Publishing), 1992, pp.542-544. Used by permission.
18 The WELS Connection – August 2004 Information Release (www.wels.net), “North American Outreach,” commenting on the biennial theme of the Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod: Proclaim Peace through Jesus.
19 Rein, R.C. Treasury of Themes and Illustrations. Milwaukee, WI: NPH, 1983, ref. 586.
20 A.G. – Arndt, Gingrich, p. 464. A.G. became Bauer, Arndt, Gingrich, Danker, with Danker moving into a more prominent position with each new edition of their Greek Lexicon. The most recent version: Arndt, W., Gingrich, F. W., Danker, F. W., & Bauer, W. (1996, c1979). A Greek-English lexicon of the New Testament and other early Christian literature : A translation and adaptation of the fourth revised and augmented edition of Walter Bauer's Griechisch-deutsches Worterbuch zu den Schrift en des Neuen Testaments und der ubrigen urchristlichen Literatur. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. [M.C. 4/8/2004]
21 CHRISTIAN WORSHIP – A Lutheran Hymnal. Milwaukee, Wisconsin: Northwestern Publishing House, 1993, p. 133.
22 SSQ2003 – Class notes from Seminary Summer Quarter, Pastor’s Institute: Exegesis of Hebrews 1:1 – 4:13, Prof. Kenneth Cherney, at Martin Luther College, New Ulm, MN. 7/14 – 7/18/2003.
