---
weight: 2
slug: The-Gospel-of-John-Cordes-2
title:  John01-01-06, 19-28
author: Pastor Cordes
kecheng: The Gospel Of John-Co
---

S#392 = John 1:6-8,19-24 ADVENT 3 Series B 12/12/1993

S#675 = John 1:1-14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series A 12/25/1998

S#834 = John 1:1-14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series A 12/25/2001

S#887 = John 1:6-8, 19-28 ADVENT 3 Series B 12/15/2002

6 egeneto anyrwpov apestalmenov para yeou onoma autw iwannhv

1:6 - There was <1096> (5633) a man <444> sent <649> (5772) from <3844> God <2316>, whose <846> name <3686> was John <2491>.

00649 apostellw apostello ap-os-tel'-lo
from 575 and 4724; TDNT-1:398,67; v
AV - send 110, send forth 15, send away 4, send out 2, misc 2; 133
1) to order (one) to go to a place appointed
2) to send away, dismiss 2a) to allow one to depart, that he may be in a state of liberty
2b) to order one to depart, send off
2c) to drive away
For Synonyms see entry 5813
====
Mk 3:31 - NIV: Then Jesus’ mother and brothers arrived. Standing outside, THEY SENT someone in to call him.
This is another time when Mary shows herself to be a sinner in need of a Savior (Luke 1:47). Instead of trusting her Son to do the sending, she once again has other ideas about how He should conduct His ministry. (See also Luke 2:48ff; John 2:1-5.) Yet Jesus always proves to be our perfect Savior by lovingly and respectfully correcting His mother while nevertheless obeying the Fourth Commandment without sin. [M.C. 7/1/2000]
Lu 4:18 - KJV: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent <649> me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set <649> at liberty them that are bruised,
Jesus is in Nazareth quoting from our OT Lesson for the 3rd SUNDAY IN ADVENT. [M.C. 12/12/2002]
Jn 3:17 - NIV: For God DID not SEND his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him.


03844 para para par-ah'
a root word; TDNT-5:727,771; prep
AV - of 51, with 42, from 24, by ... side 15, at 12, than 11, misc 45; 200
1) from, of at, by, besides, near
====
This preposition can be used in compounds to express the warmth and good feelings of close companionship. Note the difference between parakaleo and prokaleo. (See M.C. note on <3870>.) Para- seems to have the connotation of putting an arm around the shoulders of someone by your side to encourage (parakaleo) that individual. But it can also be used in the sense of getting too close for comfort as in parazeloo: ‘provoke to jealousy’ <3863>, where perhaps the idea is cozying up to someone else besides one’s rightful spouse. As always, the context must decide. [M.C. 2/16/1996]
Jn 1:6 - NIV: There came a man who was sent FROM God; his name was John.
- NET: A man came – God sent him – his name was John.
The NIV is more literal, and yet cannot seem to get across the thought of closeness in this preposition which most literally would be translated: “…sent from beside God.” This is the close relationship between God and the prophets through the in-breathing of the Holy Spirit. [M.C. 12/23/1998]
Jn 14:17 - NET: …because he [another Comforter (Helper), the Spirit of Truth] remains WITH you and will be in you.
- Literal: …for BESIDE you he will remain and in you will he be.
These verses about the Holy Spirit certainly support the connotation of para- as close and caring. The whole context of the occasion in the Upper Room, of Jesus washing His disciples feet in chapter 13, of Jesus’ Last Will and Testament, of His words in these verses and of His High Priestly Prayer to His heavenly Father in chapter 17 – all give us the feeling of an intensely close and loving family, in fact more so than we can humanly conceive as Jesus says so simply and beautifully in 14:20. [M.C. 5/8/1999]

He 12:19 - NIV: …so that those who heard it BEGGED that no futher word be spoken to them,
Here in combination with aiteomai, “to ask,” the prefix of para- pictures such an intensity of desire on the part of the Israelites at Sinai not to be terrified any longer by the direct Word from the LORD, that they came up beside Moses, thronging around him and “begging” that he relieve them of this distress. [M.C. 9/3/1998]


03686 onoma onoma on'-om-ah
from a presumed derivative of the base of 1097 (cf 3685); TDNT-5:242,694; n n
AV - name 193, named 28, called 4, surname + 2007 2, named + 2564 1, not tr 1; 229
1) name: univ. of proper names
2) the name is used for everything which the name covers, everything the thought or feeling of which is aroused in the mind by mentioning, hearing, remembering, the name, i.e., for one's rank, authority, interests, pleasure, command, excellences, deeds etc.
3) persons reckoned up by name
4) the cause or reason named: on this account, because he suffers as a Christian, for this reason
====
“a good name” = “a good reputation” [M.C. 12/23/1999]
Application: According to the Arndt/Gingrich (A.G.) lexicon, the expression “eis to onoma” has been discovered on the papyri, scraps of ancient “paper” used as sales receipts to transfer
ownership from one party to another. If a slave came into the market place in bondage, he/she could be bought “eis to onoma,” into the name of a new master. Likewise, we come into this world in bondage to sin and Satan until we are baptized “eis to onoma,” “into the name/ownership of” the Triune God - Father, Son, and Holy Spirit - for His care and keeping. [M.C. 4/19/1996]
Application: God’s Name is His reputation. The LORD protects His reputation with the Second Commandment and passages like Isaiah 42:8: “I am the LORD; that is my name!
I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols.” He tells us that “a good name is more desirable than riches; to be esteemed is better than silver or gold” (Proverbs 22:1). He gives us the Eighth Commandment to protect our good name. But the Name of the LORD God is especially important for us sinners because our eternal salvation depends on us trusting Him as our Savior from sin. Thus God’s Name is everything by which He makes Himself known, i.e., His holy, precious Word, the Bible. [M.C. 1993]
Lu 2:21 - NIV: ...he was named Jesus, the NAME the angel had given him before he had been conceived.
Ph 2:9 - NIV: …God…gave him the NAME that is above every NAME,
“The Name” = hwhy the covenant God of free and faithful grace. By ascribing this Name to Jesus, the Father is agreeing with Jesus’ divine names, divine attributes and divine works which clearly indicate that He is true God while at the same time true Man. [M.C. 4/14/2000]
Application: God’s name is His reputation which He has revealed in Jesus Christ. For us sinners under the curse of God’s law, there would only be fear and terror because of his Name: “See,
the Name of the LORD comes from afar, with burning anger and dense clouds of smoke; his lips are full of wrath, and his tongue is a consuming fire” (Isaiah 30: 27) as Judgment Day reveals the “fire pit...deep and wide, with an abundance of fire and wood; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of burning sulfur, sets it ablaze” (Isaiah 30:33). But in Christ we see God as the One who prefers to be merciful: “Who is a God like you, who pardons sin and forgives the transgression of the remnant of his inheritance? You do not stay angry forever but delight to show mercy. You will again have compassion on us; you will tread our sins underfoot and hurl all our iniquities into the depths of the sea” (Micah 7:18f). [M.C. 10/05/1996]

Re 2:13 - NIV: I know where you live—where Satan has his throne. Yet you remain true to my name. You did not renounce your faith in me, even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was put to death in your city—where Satan lives.
Siegbert W. Becker: “The ‘name’ of Jesus has to do with everything we know about Jesus. ‘Name,’ both in English and Greek, is often a synonym for ‘reputation.’ A ‘good name,’ for example, has to do with all the good things that are known about a man. What we know of Jesus is found in the gospel. To hold fast to the name of Jesus is to hold fast to the gospel, to cling to what we have learned about the Savior.” 1
Re 2:17 - NIV: He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give some of the hidden manna. I will also give him a white stone with a new NAME written on it, known only to him who receives it.
Siegbert W. Becker: “In biblical terms, to give someone a name means to describe him. When God gives someone a new name, this person is no longer what he was before. There will be a new type of existence for his people. We may think here especially of the exchange of this present troubled world for the bliss of heaven. No one can ever know that bliss fully until he experiences it, and in that sense the new name is unknown to all except those who have received it. It certainly also includes the hidden righteousness of the believing child of God which makes him an heir of the bliss of heaven. Since this is a righteousness we have by faith, and since faith is conviction concerning unseen things (Hebrews 11:1), this righteousness is not something anyone knows except the person who has it.” 2
Re 3:12 - NIV: Him who overcomes I will make a pillar in the temple of my God. Never again will he leave it. I will write on him the NAME of my God and the NAME of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which is coming down out of heaven from my God; and I will also write on him my new NAME.
Siegbert W. Becker: “To write one’s name on something denotes ownership...belong to God forever... belong to the city of God...new Jerusalem, not built with the hands of men...chapter 21....‘new name’... described in terms completely different from those which described him in his state of humiliation, when he wore the garb of a servant. Today and forevermore he is the glorious victor over sin and death, over the devil and hell. Once he was despised and rejected by men, but now he is King of kings and Lord of lords, and those on whom he has written his new name belong to him, and will share in the glory of that new name.” 3


02491 Ioannhv Ioannes ee-o-an'-nace
of Hebrew origin 03110 Nnxwy; ; n pr m
AV – John (the Baptist) 92, John (the apostle) 36, John (Mark) 4, John (the chief priest) 1; 133
John = "Jehovah is a gracious giver"
1) John the Baptist was the son of Zacharias and Elisabeth, the forerunner of Christ. By order of Herod Antipas he was cast into prison and afterwards beheaded.
2) John the apostle, the writer of the Fourth Gospel, son of Zebedee and Salome, brother of James the elder. He is that disciple who (without mention by name) is spoken of in the Fourth Gospel as especially dear to Jesus and according to the traditional opinion is the author of the book of Revelation.
3) John surnamed Mark, the companion of Barnabas and Paul #Ac 12:12.
4) John a certain man, a member of the Sanhedrin #Ac 4:6.



7 outov hlyen eiv marturian ina marturhsh peri tou fwtov ina pantev pisteuswsin di autou

1:7 - The same <3778> came <2064> (5627) for <1519> a witness <3141>, to <2443> bear witness <3140> (5661) of <4012> the Light <5457>, that <2443> all <3956> men through <1223> him <846> might believe <4100> (5661).

03141 marturia marturia mar-too-ree’-ah
from 3144; TDNT-4:474,564; n f
AV - witness 15, testimony 14, record 7, report 1; 37
1) a testifying 1a) the office committed to the prophets of testifying concerning future events
2) what one testifies, testimony, i.e. before a judge
====
Jn 1:7 - Greek: outov hlyen eiv marturian ina marturhsh <3140> peri tou fwtov ina pantev pisteuswsin di autou
- NIV: he came as a WITNESS to testify concerning that light…
- NET: He came TO TESTIFY, that is, to testify about the Light …
- Literal: This one came into A TESTIFYING, in order that he might testify <3140> about the light, in order that everyone might believe through him.
Our English language struggles to capture the simple Greek of John the Evangelist. The idea is that John the Baptist came into the sphere of (eiv) the prophets who had been testifying about (peri) the coming Christ. John's immediate purpose was to testify / witness about Christ, but all this ultimately was intended to capture the hearts and souls of the hearers by faith in Jesus for heaven. [M.C. 12/23/1998]


03140 marturew martureo mar-too-reh'-o
from 3144; TDNT-4:474,564; v
AV - bear witness 25, testify 19, bear record 13, witness 5, be a witness 2, give testimony 2, have a good report 2, misc 11; 79
1) to be a witness, to bear witness, i.e., to affirm that one has seen or heard or experienced something, or that he knows it because taught by divine revelation or inspiration
1a) to give (not to keep back) testimony
1b) to utter honourable testimony, give a good report
1c) conjure, implore
====
Total number of usages in the Synoptics = 3 passages:
Mt 23:31 - KJV: Wherefore ye be witnesses <3140> unto yourselves, that ye are the children of them which killed the prophets.
Lu 4:22 - KJV: And all bare <3140> him witness <3140>, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son?
Lu 11:48 - KJV: Truly ye bear witness <3140> that ye allow the deeds of your fathers: for they indeed killed them, and ye build their sepulchres.
In John usage of marturew = 31 passages. The strong witnessing character of John’s Gospel is especially evident in his last two usages included below:
Jn 1:7 - Greek: outov hlyen eiv marturian ina marturhsh <3140> peri tou fwtov ina pantev pisteuswsin di autou
- NIV: he came as a WITNESS to testify concerning that light…
- NET: He came TO TESTIFY, that is, to testify about the Light …
- Literal: This one came into a testifying <3141>, in order that HE MIGHT TESTIFY about the light, in order that everyone might believe through him.
Jn 19:35 - KJV: And he that saw it bare record <3140>, and his record is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe.
Jn 21:24 - KJV: This is the disciple which testifieth <3140> of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true.


05457 fwv phos foce
from an obsolete phao (to shine or make manifest, especially by rays, cf 5316, 5346); TDNT-9:310,1293; n n
AV - light 68, fire 2; 70
1) light 1a) the light
1a1) emitted by a lamp
1a2) a heavenly light such as surrounds angels when they appear on earth
1b) anything emitting light
1b1) a star
1b2) fire because it is light and sheds light
1b3) a lamp or torch
1c) light, i.e., brightness
1c1) of a lamp
2) metaph. 2a) God is light because light has the extremely delicate, subtle, pure, brilliant quality
2b) of truth and its knowledge, together with the spiritual purity associated with it
2c) that which is exposed to the view of all, openly, publicly
2d) reason, mind
2d1) the power of understanding esp. moral and spiritual truth
For Synonyms see entry 5817
====
Mt 5:14 - NIV: You are the LIGHT of the world.
Jesus speaking to His disciples in the Sermon on the Mount. As we reflect the light of Jesus who also says, “I am the LIGHT of the world,” we too are used by God to shine His love into the dark places of the earth. [M.C. 12/23/1998]

Jn 1:4 - NIV: In him was life and that life was the LIGHT of men.

Jn 3:19-21 - NIV: This is the verdict: LIGHT has come into the world, but men loved darkness instead of LIGHT because their deeds were evil. Everyone who does evil hates the LIGHT, and will not come into the LIGHT for fear that his deeds will be exposed. But whoever lives by the truth comes into the LIGHT, so that it may be seen plainly that what he has done has been done through God.
Application: Coupled with Mt 5:13 above, Jesus here explains in John 3, perhaps still talking to Nicodemus, why Christians encounter such irrational animosity from unbelievers, even
when trying to do good for society. Jesus told His disciples in the upper room the night He was betrayed: “If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first” (John 15:18). Who in all of history ever did more for our world (John 3:16) and the people in it than the “Light of the world” (John 8:12) when “He died for all”? [M.C. 2/2/1996]

1 Pe 2:9 - KJV: But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light <5457>:

1 Jn 1:5 - NIV: ...God is LIGHT; in him there is no darkness at all.


01223 dia dia dee-ah'
primary preposition denoting the channel of an act; TDNT - 2:65,149; prep
AV - by (241) - through (88) - for (58)
- because (52) - for...sake (47) - therefore + 5124 (44)
- with (16) - for this cause + 5124 (14) - misc (86) [646]
1) through 1a) of place 1a1) with
1a2) in
1b) of time 1b1) throughout
1b2) during
1c) of means 1c1) by
1c2) by the means of
2) through 2a) the ground or reason by which something is or is not done
2a1) by reason of
2a2) on account of
2a3) because of for this reason
2a4) therefore
2a5) on this account
====
Ep 2:8 - KJV: For by grace are ye saved THROUGH faith....
- NIV: For it is by grace you have been saved, THROUGH faith....
Both the KJV and NIV translate correctly according to the context which gives all the credit and glory to God for our salvation – Sola Gratia, by grace alone. To translate “because of faith” would be wrong, since that would make it seem as if God saw our faith first and then decided to save us. The opposite is true according to this verse which also calls faith “the gift of God.” In fact, the entire context shows this is all God’s work, not ours, beginning with God raising us to life (the “first resurrection” - Revelation 20:5) out of our sin-dead state (2:1), giving us new life in Christ (2:5f), granting us God’s gift of salvation and the faith to receive it here in 2:8.
Application: The first thought in The Online Bible definition above says it very well: dia- is a “primary preposition denoting the channel of an act.” We can rightly think of faith as the channel
through which God pours the water of life from His bounties into our hearts. Thus faith is the receiving organ, a funnel for God’s grace in Christ. [M.C. 3/7/1997]


04100 pisteuw pisteuo pist-yoo'-o
from 4102; TDNT-6:174,849; v
AV - believe 239, commit unto 4, commit to (one's) trust 1, be committed unto 1, be put in trust with 1, be commit to one's trust 1, believer 1; 248
1) to think to be true, to be persuaded of, to credit, place confidence in
1a) of the thing believed
1a1) to credit, have confidence
1b) in a moral or religious reference
1b1) used in the NT of the conviction and trust to which a man is impelled by a certain inner and higher prerogative and law of soul
1b2) to trust in Jesus or God as able to aid either in obtaining or in doing something: saving faith
1bc) mere acknowledgment of some fact or event: intellectual faith
2) to entrust a thing to one, i.e., his fidelity
2a) to be intrusted with a thing
====
Note the confusion of “faith” and “reason” under 1b) above.
More in keeping with Scripture: “Faith” is the hand that receives God’s promises. “Faith” is not a decision, but “a gift of God” as is also the salvation it receives (Ephesians 2:8f). The Bible shows that “faith” and reason or rational intelligence are two different things. For instance, infants and children can have faith. Jesus speaks of “these little ones (ena twn mikrwn toutwn twn pisteuontwn eiv eme) who believe in me” (Matthew 18:6; Mark 9:42), though the context shows they were too young to have reached what some like to call “the age of reason” – an expression not found in the Holy Scriptures.
And yet, “faith” is not unreasonable (Isaiah 1:18). It simply serves in a ministerial (servant) role rather than magisterial (master) role. True, saving “faith” lets God be God (Isaiah 55:8f). [M.C. 1/10/2000]
Dr. Siegbert Becker in his book, The Foolishness of God, aptly notes: “It is not Christianity that needs to be made reasonable, but reason that needs to be made Christian.” 4 [NPH – M.C. 4/1/1999]

2 Ti 3:14 - NIV: …continue in what you have learned and have BECOME CONVINCED OF (epistwyhv), because you know those from whom you learned it.
Here we see the ministerial role of reason where God gave the gift of faith to Timothy “from infancy” (v.15) and concomitant with faith, the conviction that the Holy Scriptures are true, making one “wise for salvation.” The need for repentance (metanoew – “change of mind”) is obvious: Change the natural mind about sin, self and God, and one has faith, love and trust in God – all worked by the Holy Spirit through Word and sacraments, the Means of Grace. [M.C. 5/2/1996]

ILLUSTRATIONS:
‘to rest one’s whole weight upon’ - as when sitting on a chair or walking across a bridge.
The story is told of a man who came to a frozen river and had to get to the other side. In fear he got down on his stomach and began to crawl across, trying desperately to spread out his weight and not crack the ice. Every time the ice shifted, as frozen waters commonly do, he thought for sure he would plunge into the frigid depths. Soon he heard the sound of whistling. He carefully turned to look behind him only to see a team of horses pulling a heavily loaded sleigh onto the ice. The driver kept right on whistling merrily all the way to the other side and disappeared through the trees. Sheepishly the man got up and finished his crossing on foot. Moral: He who knows the Way can trust his weight.
Same story in poetical form from WELS Stewardship materials 1995:
A traveler crossed a frozen stream
In trembling fear one day;
Later a teamster drove across;
And whistled all the way.
Great faith and little faith alike
Were granted safe convoy;
One had the pangs of needless fear,
The other all the joy.
Then there was the man on the bus growing more tired by the minute as he watched a woman clinging to her packages trying to keep them from falling off her lap. Finally the man said, “Lady, if you put your bundles on the floor, the bus will carry both you and them.” Moral: “Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved” (Psalm 55:22).


8 ouk hn ekeinov to fwv all ina marturhsh peri tou fwtov

1:8 - He was <2258> (5713) not <3756> that <1565> Light <5457>, but <235> was sent to <2443> bear witness <3140> (5661) of <4012> that Light <5457>.

05457 fwv [See above on 1:7.]

03140 marturew [See above on 1:7.]
. . .


19 kai auth estin h marturia tou iwannou ote apesteilan oi ioudaioi ex ierosolumwn iereiv kai leuitav ina erwthswsin auton su tiv ei

1:19 - ¶ And <2532> this <3778> is <2076> (5748) the record <3141> of John <2491>, when <3753> the Jews <2453> sent <649> (5656) priests <2409> and <2532> Levites <3019> from <1537> Jerusalem <2414> to <2443> ask <2065> (5661) him <846>, Who <5101> art <1488> (5748) thou <4771>?

00649 apostellw [See above on 1:6.]
====
Mt 22:16 - NIV: So they SENT their disciples to him along with the Herodians
The Pharisees did this in order “to trap [Jesus] in his words” (v.15).
Application: Jesus is not the only one who sends His disciples. The enemies of God do the same. This is why Jesus says 11x (NIV) in the Gospels and through His apostles: “Be on your guard....” (Cf. Matthew 10:17; 16:6; Acts 20:31) [M.C. 10/25/1996]


02453 ioudaiov Ioudaios ee-oo-dah'-yos
from 2448 (in the sense of 2455 as a country); TDNT-3:356,372; adj
AV - Jew 193, of Judea 1, Jewess 2; 196
1) Jewish, belonging to the Jewish nation
2) Jewish as respects to birth, origin, religion
====
Re 2:9 - Becker’s note fr p.52 re. “synogogue of Satan”: <0988> blasphemia.
Application: One of the great debates among modern Israelis is how much “Jewish” blood one needs to be able to rightly consider himself a Jew. Over the centuries the chosen nation of God so
intermarried with the Gentiles that there are no biologically absolute Jews left. Perhaps it would help people to overcome or at least stifle some of their anti-Semitism to consider this historical fact. [M.C. 1/3/2002]


02409 iereuv hiereus hee-er-yooce'
from 2413; TDNT-3:257,349; n m
AV - priest 31, high priest 1; 32
1) a priest, one who offers sacrifices and in general in busied with sacred rites
1a) referring to priests of Gentiles or the Jews,
2) metaph. of Christians, because, purified by the blood of Christ and brought into close intercourse with God, they devote their life to him alone and to Christ
====
Jn 1:19 - KJV: And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests <2409> and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou?

Ac 6:7 - KJV: And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the priests <2409> were obedient to the faith.
Re 1:6 - KJV: And hath made us kings and priests <2409> unto God and his Father; to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
Re 5:10 - KJV: And hast made us unto our God kings and priests <2409>: and we shall reign on the earth.
Re 20:6 - KJV: Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection: on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests <2409> of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.


03019 leuithv Leuites lyoo-ee’-tace
from 3017; TDNT-4:239,530; n pr m
AV - Levite 3; 3
1) one of the tribe of Levi
2) in a narrower sense those were called Levites who, not being of the family of Aaron, for whom alone the priesthood was reserved, served as assistants to the priests. It was their duty to keep the sacred utensils and the temple clean, to provide the sacred loaves, to open and shut the gates of the temple, to sing the sacred hymns in the temple, and to do many other things.
====
Lu 10:32 - KJV: And likewise a Levite <3019>, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side.

Jn 1:19 - KJV: And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites <3019> from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou?

Ac 4:36 - KJV: And Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, (which is, being interpreted, The son of consolation,) a Levite <3019>, and of the country of Cyprus,


02414 Ierosoluma Hierosoluma hee-er-os-ol'-oo-mah
of Hebrew origin 03389 hmylvwry, cf 2419; TDNT-7:292,1028; n pr loc
AV - Jerusalem 59; 59
Jerusalem = "set ye double peace"
1) denotes either the city itself or the inhabitants
2) "the Jerusalem that now is," with its present religious institutions, i.e., the Mosaic system, so designated from its primary external location
3) "Jerusalem that is above," that is existing in heaven, according to the pattern of which the earthly Jerusalem was supposed to be built
3a) metaph. "the City of God founded by Christ," now wearing the form of the church, but after Christ's return to put on the form of the perfected Messianic kingdom
4) "the heavenly Jerusalem," that is the heavenly abode of God, Christ, the angels, saints of the Old and New Testament periods and those Christians that are alive at Christ's return
5) "the New Jerusalem," a splendid visible city to be let down from heaven after the renovation of the world, the future abode of the blessed
====
The above quotes are given in The Online Bible without their references. It would be good to check out the context of the passages using Ierosoluma before accepting any definitions which may reflect a presuppositional bias toward the myth of the earthly millennium. As Jesus said to Pilate: “My kingdom is not of this world” (John 18:36). We cannot tell from Scripture whether the Lord God is planning a “renovation of the world” (def. 5 above) or whether passages like 2 Peter 3:10 point to a total annihilation of the old and completely different new heaven and earth. As the Lord says through His Apostle Paul, quoting Isaiah 64:4: “No eye has seen, no ear has heard, no mind has conceived what God has prepared for those who love him” (1 Corinthians 2:9). The Holy Spirit may be using picture language to describe the “new Jerusalem” for our newborn minds. This He specifically says in Revelation 1:1f. (See the Greek original on apocalyptic literature and .) [M.C. 2/28/1997]


02065 erwtaw erotao er-o-tah'-o
apparently from 2046 cf 2045; TDNT-2:685,262; v
AV - ask 23, beseech 14, pray 14, desire 6, intreat 1; 58
1) to question
2) to ask 2a) to request, entreat, beg, beseech
For Synonyms see entry 5802 & 5920


05101 tiv tis tis
probably emphat. of 5100; ; pron
AV - what 260, who 102, why 66, whom 25, which 17, misc 67; 537
1) who, which, what



20 kai wmologhsen kai ouk hrnhsato kai wmologhsen oti ouk eimi egw o cristov

1:20 - And <2532> he confessed <3670> (5656), and <2532> denied <720> (5662) not <3756>; but <2532> confessed <3670> (5656), <3754> I <1473> am <1510> (5748) not <3756> the Christ <5547>.

03670 omologew homologeo hom-ol-og-eh’-o
from a compound of the base of 3674 and 3056; TDNT-5:199,687; v
AV - confess 17, profess 3, promise 1, give thanks 1, confession is made 1, acknowledgeth 1; 24
1) to say the same thing as another, i.e. to agree with, assent
2) to concede
2a) not to refuse, to promise
2b) not to deny 2b1) to confess
2b2) to declare
2b3) to confess, i.e., to admit, declare oneself guilty of an accusation
3) to profess
3a) to declare openly, speak out freely
3b) to profess oneself the worshipper of one
4) to praise, celebrate
====
Literally omo (“same”) + logew (“to say”) = “to say the same thing” [M.C. 5/1/1997]

Mt 10:32 - NIV: Whoever ACKNOWLEDGES me before men, I will also ACKNOWLEDGE
him before my Father in heaven.
Application: To “acknowledge” Jesus is to ‘say the same thing’ as Jesus. We Christians are commanded literally to “disciple all nations” by “teaching them to guard and keep
everything Christ has commanded” (Matthew 28:20), not just the Bible teachings which we find pleasing or which are easy to accept. Thus the believer “acknowledges” Jesus, saying, “Jesus is mine. I believe His every Word and fully trust Him.” For such a one Jesus will “say the same thing” before His Father, acknowledging: “This one trusts Me and believes My every Word. This one is mine.” Nothing else will matter on that Last Day or for all eternity. [M.C. 5/1/1997]

The Holy Spirit inspire John to use omologew at least three times in his Gospel:
Jn 1:20 - KJV: And he confessed <3670>, and denied not; but confessed <3670>, I am not the Christ.
Jn 9:22 - KJV: These words spake his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confess <3670> that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
Jn 12:42 - KJV: Nevertheless among the chief rulers also many believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they did <3670> not confess <3670> him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue:
 [to confess, promise, praise],  [to confess, promise, praise],  [to praise, thank],  [confession],  [confessedly]
A. The Group in Secular Greek Usage. This group is common in law and religion. The literal meaning of  is “to say the same thing.” We thus get the senses a. “to agree to something” (an affirmation, a charge, etc.), b. “to confirm receipt,” c. “to agree or submit to a proposal,” and d. “to agree,to a wish,” “to promise.” In a transferred sense it may denote the agreement of words and deeds, or of customs. The noun  is important in Socratic dialogue as indicating consent to what is found to be valid followed by the appropriate resolve and action; theoretical assent is not enough. In the Stoics there is a shift from the thought of actual conduct to the idea of an integrated state of life. In the papyri the word takes on the sense of a “compact” or “agreement” of a legal character. In religion we find varied use, e.g., for commitment to vows and especially for the confessing of sins. 5

00720 arneomai arneomai ar-neh’-om-ahee
perhaps from 1 (as a negative particle) and the middle voice of 4483; TDNT-1:469,79; v
AV - deny 29, refuse 2; 31
1) to deny
2) to deny someone
2a) to deny oneself 2a1) to disregard his own interests or to prove false to himself
2a2) act entirely unlike himself
3) to deny, abnegate, abjure
4) not to accept, to reject, to refuse something offered
====
The Holy Spirit inspire John to use arneomai at least three times in his Gospel:
Jn 1:20 - KJV: And he confessed, and denied <720> not; but confessed, I am not the Christ.
Jn 18:25 - KJV: And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said therefore unto him, Art not thou also one of his disciples? He denied <720> it, and said, I am not.
Jn 18:27 - KJV: Peter then denied <720> again: and immediately the cock crew.
Application: Considering these three usages together shows what deep, deep trouble Peter was in when he failed to heed the Savior’s warning. What a warning to us, and what a blessing to
be able to see with 20/20 Holy Spirit hindsight the love of Jesus that forgave and reinstated His foolish disciple (John 21:15-19). [M.C. 12/12/2002]


01510 eimi eimi i-mee'
the first person singular present indicative; a prolonged form of a primary and defective verb; TDNT - 2:398,206; v
AV - I am + 1473 74, am 55, it is I + 1473 6, be 2, I was + 1473 1, have been 1, not tr 7; 146
1) to be, to exist, to happen, to be present
====
Jn 1:20f,27 - KJV: And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am <1510> not the Christ. 21 And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am <1510> not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No….27 He it is, who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe’s latchet I am <1510> not worthy to unloose.
Jn 3:28 - KJV: Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am <1510> not the Christ, but that I am <1510> sent before him.
Jn 4:26 - KJV: Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am <1510> he.
Application: There are fifty-two Strong-numbered usages of eimi <1510> in John’s Gospel. Most of them are the great “I AM” (egw eimi) statements of our Lord Jesus which proclaim His
divinity. Among them, however, are the confessions of John the Baptist which show it is not only vital that we know who Christ is, but also that we confess who we are not. [M.C. 12/12/2002]


05547 Cristov Christos khris-tos'
from 5548; TDNT-9:493,1322; adj
AV - Christ (569)
Christ = "anointed"
1) Christ was the Messiah, the Son of God
2) anointed
====
“Anointed One” = “Messiah” (Hebrew); “Christ” (Greek)

Ancient promise from the OT: The “Christ” will be characterized by joy.
Ps 45:7 - NIV: You love righteousness and hate wickedness; therefore God, your God, has set you above your companions by anointing you with the oil of joy.

Fulfillment in the NT:
Lu 10:21 - NIV: At that time Jesus, full of joy through the Holy Spirit, said, “I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for this was your good pleasure.”
Ac 10:38 - NIV: how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and power, and how he went around doing good and healing all who were under the power of the devil, because God was with him.
This is Jesus at His baptism by John in the Jordan River (Matthew 3:13-17, S#512).

Ro 7:25 - KJV: I thank God through Jesus Christ <5547> our Lord. So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God; but with the flesh the law of sin.
Application: The Holy Spirit inspired Paul to use Cristov at least sixty-eight times in Romans alone. When Cristov is his focus, Paul can’t help bubbling over with the thanks and joy which are charaterized in Christ. [M.C. 7/3/2002]

Related Passage – quoted from Psalm 45:7 above:
He 1:9 - NIV: You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; therefore God, your God, has set you above your companions by anointing you with the oil of joy.



21 kai hrwthsan auton ti oun hliav ei su
kai legei ouk eimi
o profhthv ei su
kai apekriyh ou

1:21 - And <2532> they asked <2065> (5656) him <846>, What <5101> then <3767>? Art <1488> (5748) thou <4771> Elias <2243>? And <2532> he saith <3004> (5719), I am <1510> (5748) not <3756>. Art <1488> (5748) thou <4771> that prophet <4396>? And <2532> he answered <611> (5662), No <3756>.

02243 Hliav Helias hay-lee'-as
of Hebrew origin 0452 whyla; TDNT-2:928,306; n pr m
AV - Elias 30; 30
Elijah = “my God is Jehovah”
1) a prophet born at Thisbe, the unflinching champion of the theocracy in the reigns of the idolatrous kings Ahab and Ahaziah. He was taken up to heaven without dying, whence the Jews expected he would return just before the advent of the Messiah, whom he would prepare the minds of the Israelites to receive.
====
Actually, the rabbis misunderstood Malachi 4:5 to mean the Old Testament Elijah instead of his New Testament counterpart, John the Baptist (Matthew 17:13). [M.C. 2/16/1996]

The Holy Spirit inspired John to use Hliav at least two times in his Gospel:
Jn 1:21 - KJV: And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias <2243>? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No....25 And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias <2243>, neither that prophet?


04396 profhthv prophetes prof-ay'-tace
from a compound of 4253 and 5346; TDNT-6:781,952; n m
AV - prophet 149; 149
1) in Greek writings, an interpreter of oracles or of other hidden things
2) one who, moved by the Spirit of God and hence his organ or spokesman, solemnly declares to men what he has received by inspiration, especially concerning future events, and in particular such as relate to the cause and kingdom of God and to human salvation
2a) the OT prophets, having foretold the kingdom, deeds and death, of Jesus the Messiah.
2b) of John the Baptist, the herald of Jesus the Messiah
2c) of the illustrious prophet, the Jews expected before the advent of the Messiah
2d) the Messiah
2e) of men filled with the Spirit of God, who by God's authority and command in words of weight pleads the cause of God and urges salvation of men
2f) of prophets that appeared in the apostolic age among Christians
2f1) they are associated with the apostles
2f2) they discerned and did what is best for the Christian cause, foretelling certain future events. (#Ac 11:27)
2f3) in the religious assemblies of the Christians, they were moved by the Holy Spirit to speak, having power to instruct, comfort, encourage, rebuke, convict, and stimulate, their hearers
3) a poet (because poets were believed to sing under divine inspiration)
3a) of Epimenides (#Tit 1:12)
====
The compound of pro <04253> + fhmi <05346> shows this simply means “to speak forth.” In the New Testament, “to prophesy” generally means “to preach.” [M.C. 9/5/1996]

Among the at least fourteen God-inspired usages of profhthv in John’s Gospel we find:
Jn 1:21-25 - KJV: And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet <4396>? And he answered, No….23 He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet <4396> Esaias….25 And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias, neither that prophet <4396>?

Jn 1:45 - KJV: Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets <4396>, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.
- NIV: …We have found the one Moses wrote about in the Law, and about whom the PROPHETS wrote – Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.
There is obviously no doubt in Philip’s mind that Jesus is the Christ whom God promised through Moses and His other holy prophets in the Old Testament. And here the New Testament includes this concept with approval as if it is true and intended for the acceptance of all. Either Christ truly is “the one…,” or the Bible is not to be trusted.
If the negative critics are correct who say that some unknown “redactors” and “editors” of the Bible were simply “accommodating the prevailing ideas of their time” and that these ideas were passed along in order to make people more “Christian” or at least “more religious,” then the entire Bible is based on intentional lies and fabrications, as if the end justifies the means.
Yet the careful comparing of Moses and the prophets to the life and message of Jesus, proves beyond a doubt that Jesus truly is “the one….” And this also exposes the negative critics as nothing more than scoffers trying to pass off as fact their “theology of doubt.” [M.C. 1/15/2000]

Jn 7:40 - NIV: ...Surely this man is the PROPHET.
Moses had been inspired by the Holy Spirit to tell the Israelites: “The LORD your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your own brothers. You must listen to him. For that is what you asked of the LORD your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly when you said, ‘Let us not hear the voice of the LORD our God nor see this great fire anymore, or we will die.’ The LORD said to me: ‘What they say is good. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers; I will put my words in his mouth, and he will tell them everything I command him. If anyone does not listen to my words that the prophet speaks in my name, I myself will call him to account. But a prophet who presumes to speak in my name anything I have not commanded him to say, or a prophet who speaks in the name of other gods, must be put to death’” (Deuteronomy 18:15-20).
Those in the crowd who identified Jesus with “the Prophet” were correct as Peter (Acts 3:22) and Stephen (Acts 7:37) pointed out in their sermons. But somewhere along the line the rabbis had concluded that “the Prophet” and “the Christ” were two different individuals. [See 2c) above.] How quickly one seemingly little misconception can set us worlds apart from the truth.
Application: People tend to think faithful pastors and theologians are “too picky” about the Word of God. Yet the same people consider it only natural for a computer to demand the exact
number in any database. For instance, a computer would reject the serial number sent in for a washing machine warranty if one out of twelve digits were inaccurate. And an E-mail address will fail if one letter, symbol or space is off (e.g., typing / instead of \). Why do we tend to be less concerned about accuracy with God’s Word?
Is it really practical to tolerate and accept multiple, contradictory “interpretations” of God’s Word? Would we want a repairman with multiple interpretations of appliance specifications? What if auto mechanics or medical doctors operated that way? Unfortunately, the more sloppy we get with the Word of God, the more our world of mechanics, repairmen, educators, politicians, etc. turn to the chaos of “relative truth.” When faulty prescriptions deliver the wrong drugs or a doctor amputates the wrong leg, people notice. And these inaccuracies in society can only multiply because of the rampant lack of respect and accuracy with the Word of God. [M.C. 1/2/1997]
Application: This is reason enough for WELS and ELS members along with all other Bible believers to correct those who say we are too “strict.” “Strict” is not the word to describe us; the word is “accurate.” [M.C. 1/24/2001]



22 eipon oun autw tiv ei ina apokrisin dwmen toiv pemqasin hmav ti legeiv peri seautou

1:22 - Then <3767> said they <2036> (5627) unto him <846>, Who <5101> art thou <1488> (5748)? that <2443> we may give <1325> (5632) an answer <612> to them that sent <3992> (5660) us <2248>. What <5101> sayest thou <3004> (5719) of <4012> thyself <4572>?

01325 didwmi didomi did'-o-mee
a prolonged form of a primary verb (which is used as an altern. in most of the tenses); TDNT-2:166,166; v
AV - give 365, grant 10, put 5, show 4, deliver 2, make 2, misc 25; 413
1) to give
2) to give something to someone
2a) of one's own accord to give one something, to his advantage
2a1) to bestow a gift
2b) to grant, give to one asking, let have
2c) to supply, furnish, necessary things
2d) to give over, deliver
2d1) to reach out, extend, present
2d2) of a writing
2d3) to give over to one's care, intrust, commit
2d3a) something to be administered
2d3b) to give or commit to some one something to be religiously observed
2e) to give what is due or obligatory, to pay: wages or reward
2f) to furnish, endue
3) to give
3a) to cause, profuse, give forth from oneself
3a1) to give, hand out lots
3b) to appoint to an office
3c) to cause to come forth, i.e., as the sea, death and Hell are said to give up the dead who have been engulfed or received by them
3d) to give one to someone as his own
3d1) as an object of his saving care
3d2) to give one to someone, to follow him as a leader and master
3d3) to give one to someone to care for his interests
3d4) to give one to someone to whom he already belonged, to return
4) to grant or permit one
4a) to commission
====
Mt 4:9 - KJV: And saith unto him, All these things will I give <1325> thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me.
Application: 413 usages in 377 passages – Isn’t it ironic that the first time didwmi is used in the NT, it spews from the mouth of the blasphemer of hell? In reality, Satan is a creature
who cannot promise anything to God the Creator or to anyone else for that matter. But “when he lies, he speaks his native language for he is a liar and the father of lies” (8:44). Unfortunately, we sinful mortals prove all too vulnerable to his vain and empty promises. We desperately need our Savior’s help in the hour of trial. [M.C. 2/15/2002]

Jn 6:65 - NIV: ...no one can come to me unless the Father HAS ENABLED him.
- NET: ...a person can come to Me only if the Father GIVES him [the power to come].
The NET is much closer to the Greek original and more clearly shows that coming to the Father by believing in Jesus (the only way to come - John 14:6) is a gift given by God. This is no surprise to anyone who believes Ephesians 2:8f. [M.C. 8/21/1997]


00612 apokrisiv apokrisis ap-ok’-ree-sis
from 611; TDNT-3:946,469; n f
AV - answer 4; 4
1) a replying, an answer
====
Lu 2:47 - KJV: And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers <612>.
Lu 20:26 - KJV: And they could not take hold of his words before the people: and they marvelled at his answer <612>, and held their peace.
Jn 1:22 - KJV: Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer <612> to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself?
Jn 19:9 - KJV: And went again into the judgment hall, and saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer <612>.
Application: Considering all four of the Holy Spirit’s usages of apokrisiv, we see that the only real answers for life and death are to be found in Jesus Christ alone. He was giving clear
and compelling answers from His heavenly Father already at age twelve and continued throughout His life on earth to speak the truth in love. His enemies wanted answers from John the Baptist, Jesus’ forerunner. And John answered them plainly and faithfully. But when our salvation required Jesus’ suffering, He gave no apokrisiv at all, but chose instead to be “led like a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is silent, so he did not open his mouth.” (Isaiah 53:7 NIV) May God grant all His witnesses the wisdom to know when and how to speak – and – to know when to hold their tongue. [M.C. 12/12/2002]


03992 pempw pempo pem'-po
apparently a root word; TDNT-1:398,67; v
AV - send 77, thrust in 2, again send 2; 81
1) to send 1a) to bid a thing to be carried to one
1b) to send (thrust or insert) a thing into another
For Synonyms see entry 5813
====
Compare pempw to apostellw:
Bull., 680, - 1. apostellw, 'to send away, send off, send forth, equip and despatch upon a certain mission, commission.' When a.o. is thus sent, it implies the mission which he has to fulfil, and the authority which backs him. (Hence the noun, apostolov, Apostle, one sent.) 3. pempw, 'to send,' simply 'let go,' as well of pers/thgs; 'to send forth' or 'away,' esp. 'to send home; to send' or 'transmit,' as presents. (No. 3 lacks the importance of mission and authority which is found in No. 1), ....

Jn 1:22 - KJV: Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent (pemqasin <3992>) us. What sayest thou of thyself?
Of the same priests and Levites in 1:19,24, the God-inspired evangelist uses forms of apostellw <649>, suggesting that in this context at least, pempw and apostellw are interchangeable synonyms without any reflection of more or less authority from the sending authority. [M.C. 12/12/2002]
Jn 1:33 - KJV: And I knew him not: but he that sent <3992> me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.

Jn 13:16 - NIV: ...nor is a messenger (apostolov) greater than the one who sent (pemqantov) him.
Here pempw and apostellw seem to be used synonymously w/o Bullinger's distinction (above). [M.C. 2/21/1996]

Jn 14:26 - NIV: ...the Holy Spirit, whom the Father WILL SEND in my name...
This does not mean the Holy Spirit relies on Jesus for His authority, since the Holy Spirit is also true God. (See on 15:26 below.) But the Holy Spirit comes in Jesus' name, i.e., in the same saving purpose and loving reputation – in everything the Name of Jesus means to us. [M.C. 5/16/1997]

Jn 15:26 - NIV: When the Counselor comes, whom I WILL SEND to you from the Father...
In both 14:26 (above) where the Father sends the Holy Spirit and here in 15:26 where Jesus does the sending, the Holy Spirit comes with His own authority as true God. And the word the Holy Spirit inspired John to use is pempw, in keeping with Bullinger’s distinction above. Jesus is not “sent” in the sense of apostellw, as were the apostles who relied on Jesus for their authority. [M.C. 5/16/1997]

Jn 20:21f - NIV: ...As the Father has sent [apestalken] me, I AM SENDING [pempw] you.
Comparing pempw and apostellw (See Bullinger, above): The difference may well be that Jesus' mission to save sinners with His innocent suffering and death required the fulfillment of OT prophecy (hence apestalken me); whereas the disciples' mission, though having Jesus' authority (20:22), was more a matter of simply transmitting what Jesus had done in fulfillment (hence pempw umav).
Otherwise, this may simply be an instance where Bullinger’s distinction does not hold up in the light of actual usage. This comparison needs more study. [M.C. 11/7/2000]


23 efh egw fwnh bowntov en th erhmw euyunate thn odon kuriou kaywv eipen hsaiav o profhthv

1:23 - He said <5346> (5713), I <1473> am the voice <5456> of one crying <994> (5723) in <1722> the wilderness <2048>, Make straight <2116> (5657) the way <3598> of the Lord <2962>, as <2531> said <2036> (5627) the prophet <4396> Esaias <2268>.

05456 fwnh phone fo-nay'
probably akin to 5316 through the idea of disclosure; TDNT-9:278,1287; n f
AV - voice 131, sound 8, be noised abroad + 1096 1, noise 1; 141
1) a sound, a tone 1a) of inanimate things, as musical instruments
2) a voice 2a) of the sound of uttered words
3) speech 3a) of a language, tongue
====
Jn 5:25 - NIV: ...the dead will hear the VOICE of the Son of God...
Jn 10:27f - NIV: My sheep listen to my VOICE; I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish; no one can snatch them out of my hand.
Jn 11:43 - Greek: …fwnh megalh … [from which we get our word “megaphone”]
- KJV: And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice <5456>, Lazarus, come forth.

Ac 7:57 - Wayward sheep refusing to listen to the Good Shepherd’s voice through His messengers like Stephen, use their own voices to drown out His: “At this they covered their ears and, yelling AT THE TOP OF THEIR VOICES, they rushed at him, dragged him out of the city and began to stone him.” [M.C. 4/25/1996]

Ac 13:27 - KJV: For they that dwell at Jerusalem, and their rulers, because they knew him not (agnohsantev), nor yet the voices <5456> of the prophets which are read every sabbath day, they have fulfilled them in condemning him.
Application: This is the flip side of the coin from John 10:27f above. Those who do not believe in Jesus and are therefore not His sheep, refuse to listen to Him or to His voice through His
spokesmen. In their ignorance of unbelief (agnoew) they do not even realize that they are fulfilling divine prophecy and thereby condemning themselves. Yet the Lord longs to be merciful to them as He was to Saul in his highly trained and educated ignorance (1 Timothy 1:13). [M.C. 5/2/2001]

1 Th 4:16 - NIV: For the Lord himself will come down from heaven, with a loud command, with the VOICE of the archangel….


00994 boaw boao bo-ah’-o
apparently a prol. form of a primary word; TDNT-1:625,108; v
AV - cry 11; 11
1) to raise a cry, of joy pain etc.
2) to cry, speak with a high, strong voice
3) to cry to one for help, to implore his aid


02048 erhmov eremos er'-ay-mos
of uncertain affinity; TDNT-2:657,255; adjective
AV – wilderness 32, desert 13, desolate 4, solitary 1; 50
1) solitary, lonely, desolate, uninhabited
1a) used of places 1a1) a desert, wilderness
1a2) deserted places, lonely regions
1a3) an uncultivated region fit for pasturage
1b) used of persons 1b1) deserted by others
1b2) deprived of the aid and protection of others, especially of friends, acquaintances, kindred
1b3) bereft
1b3a) of a flock deserted by the shepherd
1b3b) of a woman neglected by her husband, from whom the husband withholds himself

02116 euyunw euthuno yoo-thoo’-no
from *2117; ; adv
AV - make straight 1, governor + 3588 1; 2
1) to make straight, level, plain
2) to lead or guide straight, to keep straight or direct
2a) of the steersman or helmsman of a ship
2b) of a charioteer
====
Jn 1:23 - KJV: He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight <2116> the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias.
Js 3:4 - KJV: Behold also the ships, which though they be so great, and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor <2116> listeth.

*02117 euyuv euthus yoo-thoos'
perhaps from 2095 and 5087; ; adj
AV - straight 5, right 3, immediately 3, straightway 2, anon 1, by and by 1, forthwith 1; 16
1) straight, level
2) straight forward, upright, true, sincere
3) straightway, immediately, forthwith

03598 odov hodos hod-os'
apparently a root word; TDNT-5:42,666; n f
AV - way 83, way side 8, journey 6, highway 3, misc 2; 102
1) properly 1a) a way 1a1) a travelled way, road
1b) a travellers way, journey, travelling
2) metaph. 2a) a course of conduct
2b) a way (i.e., manner) of thinking, feeling, deciding
====
Mt 22:16 - KJV: And they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way <3598> of God in truth, neither carest thou for any man: for thou regardest not the person of men.

Jn 14:4 - NIV: You know THE WAY to the place where I am going.
Jn 14:6 - NIV: I am THE WAY and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.
Thus the man born blind and healed by Jesus had it right when he said to the Pharisees: “We know that God does not listen to sinners. He listens to the godly man who does his will” (Jn 9:31). “The work of God is this: to believe in the one he has sent” (Jn 6:29).
Application: Prayers offered in some other Name besides that of “Jesus Christ” are like rockets that go only just so high into the sky and fall back to earth again. But Jesus catches the prayers of
believers and carries them all the way to the throne of grace and there pleads for us for help beyond what we can ask or imagine (Ephesians 3:20). “For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus” (1 Timothy 2:5). [M.C. 5/2/1996]


02962 kuriov kurios koo'-ree-os
from kuros (supremacy); TDNT-3:1039,486; n m
AV - Lord 667, lord 54, master 11, sir 6, Sir 6, misc 4; 748
1) he to whom a person or thing belongs, about which he has power of deciding; master, lord
1a) the possessor and disposer of a thing
1a1) the owner; one who has control of the person, the master
1a2) in the state: the sovereign, prince, chief, the Roman emperor
1b) is a title of honour expressive of respect and reverence, with which servants greet their master
1c) this title is given to: God, the Messiah
For Synonyms see entry 5830
====
Mk 12:36 - Greek: …eipen o kuriov tw kuriw mou…
- KJV: For David himself said by the Holy Ghost, The LORD <2962> said to my Lord <2962>, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool.
Ps 110:1 - LXX: eipen o kuriov tw kuriw mou
- Hebrew: …y:nda:l hwhy Man…
Both the LXX translation of Psalm 110:1, and the Koine Greek quoting Jesus in Mark 12:36, indicate that kuriov was the Greek word used to translate both the Hebrew tetragrammeton hwhy and the Hebrew y:nda. [M.C. 4/14/2000]

Lu 19:33 - KJV: And as they were loosing the colt, the owners <2962> thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt?
Application: Our English translation helps to indicate the clear understanding of ownership in the Greek word kuriov. When our Lord puts His Name on us in our baptism, we become His
personal responsibility and His property once again. We tore ourselves away by our sins, but baptism washes our sins away (Acts 22:16), freeing us again to enjoy being the “treasured possession” (Ex 19:5; De 7:6; 14:2; 26:18; Ps 135:4; Mal 3:17) of the Lord God. [M.C. 4/7/2001]

Jn 9:36 - KJV: He answered and said, Who is he, Lord <2962>, that I might believe on him?
Jn 9:38 - KJV: And he said, Lord <2962>, I believe. And he worshipped him.
These two verses illustrate the contextual usage of kuriov as “sir” (v.36 – before the blind man realizes that Jesus is God to be worshiped) and “Lord” in the sense of the OT hwhy (v.38 – after Jesus has indicated His identity as the Son of Man). [M.C. 3/1/2002]

Jn 20:28 - Greek: … o kuriov mou kai o yeov mou
- NIV: Thomas said to him, “My Lord and my God!”
Thomas calls Jesus, “My kuriov.” Based on the translation of Mk 12:36 and Ps 110:1 above, it seems the Holy Spirit is translating here in both the sense of Jehovah (hwhy) and of Lord-Master (y:nda). The “Jehovah’s Witness” would have to insist on only the later. However, Thomas is not finished. He also calls Jesus, “My God!” Rather than correct him, “Then Jesus told him, ‘Because you have seen me, you have believed; blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.’” Here it is obvious that if the “Jehovah’s Witnesses” were right, Jesus should have told Thomas to stop calling Him, “God.” Instead, Jesus accepts equal honor and glory with the Father because He is true God, Jehovah Himself. [M.C. 4/14/2000]

Ga 1:3 – “our Lord Jesus Christ” - Cf. Ep 1:22f: “And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way.” [See Luther, “The Argument of St. Paul’s Letter to the Galatians,” below.]

Php 2:9-11 - NIV: Therefore God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the eath, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Since the Holy Spirit through Paul has already said Jesus was given the “name that is above every name” (2:9), i.e., the Name Jehovah, this can only mean that it is “to the glory of God the Father” when every tongue agrees openly that “Jesus Christ is Jehovah.” [M.C. 4/14/2000]

Ro 8:39 - KJV: Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord <2962>.
- Literal: …the Lord of us, our Lord…
Application: Here the stress is not on Christ's rule over our lives, but on the protection a lord and master gives his servants, especially those as precious to him as sons. [M.C. 3/17/1991]

Re 19:16 - NIV: On his robe and on his thigh he has this name written: KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.

Martin Luther: “Lord Jesus, you are my righteousness: I am your sin. You became what you were not and made me to be what I was not.” 6
Application:
Martin Luther: “The Argument of St. Paul’s Letter to the Galatians”: “It is also [the devil’s] habit to set against us those passages in the Gospel in which Christ Himself requires works from us and with plain words threatens damnation to those who do not perform them. If here we cannot distinguish between these two kinds of righteousness; if here by faith we do not take hold of Christ, who is sitting at the right hand of God, who is our life and our righteousness, and who makes intercession for us miserable sinners before the Father (Hebrews 7:25), then we are under Law and not under grace, and Christ is no longer a Savior. Then He is a lawgiver. Then there is no salvation left, but sure despair and eternal death will follow.
“...When I have this righteousness [from God, by faith - Ro 3:21ff] within me, I descend from heaven like the rain that makes the earth fertile. That is, I come forth into another kingdom [that of the Lord Jesus Christ], and I perform good works whenever the opportunity arises. If I am a minister of the Word, I preach, I comfort the saddened, I administer the sacraments. If I am a father, I rule my household and family, I train my children in piety and honesty....In short, whoever knows for sure that Christ is his righteousness, not only cheerfully and gladly works in his calling but also submits himself for the sake of love to magistrates, also to their wicked laws, and to everything else in this present life – even, if need be, to burden and danger. For he knows that God wants this and that this obedience pleases Him.” 7


02268 Hsaiav Hesaias hay-sah-ee'-as
of Hebrew origin 03470 whyevy; ; n pr m
AV - Esaias 21; 21
Isaiah = "Jehovah's help"
1) a famous Hebrew prophet who prophesied in the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah
====
Application: Sometimes referred to as “the evangelist of the Old Testament” because of his many God-inspired prophecies of sweet, sweet Gospel. Among them is Isaiah 1:18, remembered
fondly by this soul, as a teenager unburdened of guilt by a God-fearing mother. What we parents of adolescents perceive as a “bad attitude,” may sometimes be a heavy heart thirsting for the water of life. Of all the prayers parents of teenagers need to pray, among the top on the list is this: “Help me to rightly divide your holy Word for my children – law to the unrepentant, gospel to the sin-saddened and weary.” [M.C. 5/17/2000]


24 kai oi apestalmenoi hsan ek twn farisaiwn

1:24 - And <2532> they which <3588> were sent <649> (5772) were <2258> (5713) of <1537> the Pharisees <5330>.

05330 farisaiov Pharisaios far-is-ah'-yos
of Hebrew origin, cf 06567 Myvwrp; TDNT-9:11,1246; n m
AV - Pharisee 100; 100
1) A sect that seems to have started after the Jewish exile. In addition to OT books the Pharisees recognised in oral tradition a standard of belief and life. They sought for distinction and praise by outward observance of external rites and by outward forms of piety, and such as ceremonial washings, fastings, prayers, and alms giving; and, comparatively negligent of genuine piety, they prided themselves on their fancied good works. They held strenuously to a belief in the existence of good and evil angels, and to the expectation of a Messiah; and they cherished the hope that the dead, after a preliminary experience either of reward or of penalty in Hades, would be recalled to life by him, and be requited each according to his individual deeds. In opposition to the usurped dominion of the Herods and the rule of the Romans, they stoutly upheld the theocracy and their country's cause, and possessed great influence with the common people. According to Josephus they numbered more than 6000. They were bitter enemies of Jesus and his cause; and were in turn severely rebuked by him for their avarice, ambition, hollow reliance on outward works, and affection of piety in order to gain popularity.



25 kai hrwthsan auton kai eipon autw ti oun baptizeiv ei su ouk ei o cristov oute hliav oute o profhthv

1:25 - And <2532> they asked <2065> (5656) him <846>, and <2532> said <2036> (5627) unto him <846>, Why <5101> baptizest thou <907> (5719) then <3767>, if <1487> thou <4771> be <1488> (5748) not <3756> that Christ <5547>, nor <3777> Elias <2243>, neither <3777> that prophet <4396>?

00907 baptizw baptizo bap-tid'-zo
from a derivative of 911; TDNT-1:529,92; verb
AV - baptize (76), wash 2, baptist 1, baptized + 2258 1; 80
1) to dip repeatedly, to immerse, to submerge (of vessels sunk)
2) to cleanse by dipping or submerging, to wash, to make clean with water, to wash oneself, bathe
3) to overwhelm
++++
Not to be confused with 911, bapto. The clearest example that shows the meaning of baptizo is a text from the Greek poet and physician Nicander, who lived about 200 B.C. It is a recipe for making pickles and is helpful because it uses both words. Nicander says that in order to make a pickle, the vegetable should first be 'dipped' (bapto) into boiling water and then 'baptised' (baptizo) in the vinegar solution. Both verbs concern the immersing of vegetables in a solution. But the first is temporary. The second, the act of baptising the vegetable, produces a permanent change. When used in the New Testament, this word more often refers to our union and identification with Christ than to our water baptism. e.g. #Mr 16:16. 'He that believes and is baptised shall be saved' . Christ is saying that mere intellectual assent is not enough. There must be a union with him, a real change, like the vegetable to the pickle! (Bible Study Magazine, James Montgomery Boice, May 1989).
====
The above comment by Boice is scripturally inaccurate and linguistically unsound. It shows the lengths to which the Reformed will go in their attempts to use human reason to logically disprove what faith in Jesus’ plain words simply accepts. But reason is to be the servant of the Word, not attempt to be the master in place of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Just because a Greek word is used a certain way in classical / secular Greek does not necessarily mean it must be this way in the Koine (Common man’s) Greek of the NT. For instance, the word “AGAPE” means “unconditional, self-sacrificing love” in the context of the New Testament, and yet it is not found in this sense in classical Greek. The Holy Spirit’s Biblical context determines the meaning of Bible words. In this way the humble child and student of God will let Scripture interpret Scripture. [M.C. 6/26/2002]
A translation which fits the context of Scripture:
NET Glossary: “baptize ‘To apply water’ by washing, dipping, sprinkling, immersing, etc. Utensils, even those very large in size, were baptized in or with water (cf. Mk 7:4; Mt 28:19). The largeness of certain objects (‘dining couches’) would indicate that ‘baptism’ was not only by immersion; heavy, bulky objects would be baptized [water being applied] by wiping them off with water.” 8
The fact that baptizw is another –izw verb, which in Greek tend to be energetic, action words, does not prove, but certainly supports the thought of pouring on water as pictured in some of the earliest Christian art where John is pictured using a shell to pour water on Jesus’ head. Hence the shell has become a Christian symbol for baptism. Since Greek –izw verbs are generally high energy verbs, this would include not only the visible action of the water, but especially the salutary effect on the soul cleansed of sin through baptism. (See Ac 22:16 below.) [M.C. 12/4/1998]

Mt 3:11 - NIV: I BAPTIZE you with water for repentance. But after me will come one who…WILL BAPTIZE you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
Neither Jesus nor John are contradicting the Holy Spirit in Ep 4:5 where we are told there is but “one baptism” in Christ’s church. The point of comparison here is clear from the context. John’s own explanation of the baptizing “fire” is in the next verse where this is shown to be the fire of hell. Therefore Jesus’ baptizing “with the Holy Spirit” would include the Holy Spirit’s (Titus 3:4-7) means of grace to bring us to faith: the Gospel in Word and sacraments. Those who in unbelief reject this great salvation will suffer Jesus “baptizing” them “with fire,” i.e., the unquenchable, all-consuming, everlasting fire of hell – as John the Baptizer explains in v. 12. [M.C. 1/14/1999]

Ac 1:5 - NIV: John BAPTIZED with water, but in a few days you WILL BE BAPTIZED with the Holy Spirit.
Here Jesus is using a play on words, in the first case referring to John literally applying the water of baptism and in the second referring to the miraculous outpouring of the Holy Spirit, a promise fulfilled on Pentecost. The second case resembles Jesus’ figurative use of baptizw in Luke 3:16; 12:50; and Paul in a different figurative sense in 1 Corinthians 10:2. As with all of Scripture, when the meaning is to be taken figuratively, the context itself must indicate it. [M.C. 5/15/1996]
We know that the Lord Jesus is not introducing a second baptism here. For one thing He did not command John’s former disciples to be rebaptized. This is one of the facts which helps us understand that John’s baptism was essentially the same as Jesus’ baptism. (Cf. Mk 1:4.) Also the Holy Spirit clearly tells us that the modern Pentecostal talk about “Spirit baptism” versus “water baptism” as if they are two different baptisms, is false doctrine. For the Holy Spirit inspired the Lord’s Apostle Paul to write that there is “one baptism” (Ephesians 4:5). And the “gift of the Holy Spirit” is inseparably joined to baptism on the Holy Spirit’s day of Pentecost in Acts 2:38. [M.C. 5/16/1996]

Ac 8:36-39 - NIV: …the eunuch said, “Look, here is water. Why shouldn’t I be BAPTIZED?” 38 …both Philip and the eunuch went down into the water and Philip BAPTIZED him. 39 When they came up out of the water…
Many who claim that baptizw must mean “immerse,” base their opinion on Jesus’ baptism where Mark (1:10) reports Jesus “coming up out of the water….” “See!” they insist. “Jesus was immersed because He “came up out of the water.” Aside from the fact that one can also “come up” out of water ankle deep, we have Acts 8:39 to show the feebleness of their argument. If this expression proves immersion, then Philip must have been immersed along with the eunuch since it says of both that “they came up out of the water.” [M.C. 5/18/2000]

Ac 22:16 - KJV: And now why tarriest thou? arise, and BE BAPTIZED, and wash away thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord.
Paul knew that baptism is a means of grace that washes away our sins. Later in his letter to Titus, Paul was inspired by the Holy Spirit to call baptism, literally, “the Holy Spirit’s washing of rebirth and renewal” (Titus 3:5). [M.C. 12/6/2000]

1 Co 10:2 - NET: By baptism in the cloud and in the sea they were all united with Moses.
The context indicates that this is a figurative use of “baptism” which shows how the Israelites were connected to, and became the responsibility of Moses under God. He was their spiritual under-shepherd. [M.C. 1/5/2000]


26 apekriyh autoiv o iwannhv legwn egw baptizw en udati mesov de umwn esthken on umeiv ouk oidate

1:26 - John <2491> answered <611> (5662) them <846>, saying <3004> (5723), I <1473> baptize <907> (5719) with <1722> water <5204>: but <1161> there standeth one <2476> (5707) (5758) among <3319> you <5216>, whom <3739> ye <5210> know <1492> (5758) not <3756>;

01722 en en en
a primary preposition denoting (fixed) position (in place, time or state), and (by implication) instrumentality (medially or constructively), i.e., a relation of rest (intermediate between 1519 and 1537); TDNT-2:537,233; prep
AV – in 1902, by 163, with 140, among 117, at 113, on 62, through 39, misc 265; 2801
1) in, by, with etc.
====
To the Greek mind, this preposition pictures someone or something “in the sphere of.”
en is used with the Dative, when indicating place, like the Dative of Fixed Location. [M.C. 1/26/2000]

Mt 3:11 - Greek: egw men baptizw umav en udati eiv metanoian
o de opisw mou ercomenov …
autov umav baptisei en pneumati agiw kai puri
- Literal: I on the one hand baptize you IN THE SPHERE OF water into the sphere of repentance, but on the other hand the one coming after me…he himself will baptize you IN THE SPHERE OF the Holy Spirit and [IN THE SPHERE OF] fire.
- KJV: I indeed baptize you WITH water unto repentance: but he that cometh after me …shall baptize you WITH the Holy Ghost, and with fire:
Although we cannot help seeing the outpouring of the Holy Spirit on Pentecost here, we dare not separate this from its context which includes the next verse (Matthew 3:12) and pictures Christ’s judgment against unbelievers as “unquenchable fire.” Then it is easier to see how John is simply pointing to Jesus’ use of the Means of Grace (See below on Mark 1:8.) to win souls for salvation, but pouring out the wrath of His fire on those who refuse to repent and believe. [M.C. 1/8/2000]


05204 udwr hudor hoo'-dore genitive case udatov hudatos hoo'-dat-os, etc.
from the base of 5205; TDNT-8:314,1203; n n
AV - water 79; 79
1) water 1a) of water in rivers, in fountains, in pools
1b) of the water of the deluge
1c) of water in any of the earth's repositories
1d) of water as the primary element, out of and through which the world that was before the deluge, arose and was compacted
1e) of the waves of the sea
1f) fig. used of many peoples
====
Mt 3:11 - KJV: I indeed baptize you with water <5204> unto repentance: but he that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire:
Mt 3:16 - KJV: And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water <5204>: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him:

Jn 4:14 - NIV: ...whoever drinks the WATER I give him will never thirst. Indeed, the WATER I give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life.
Jesus gives “living water” to the Samaritan woman at Jacob’s well when He preaches to her Law and Gospel. The fruits of faith follow in her witnessing to the townspeople in bold confession of her sins and leading questions about her Savior. [M.C. 2/21/2002]
Jn 7:38 - KJV: He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water <5204>.
Jn 7:37-39 - NIV: On the last and greatest day of the Feast, Jesus stood and said in a loud voice, “If a man is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the Scripture has said, streams of living WATER will flow from within him” By this he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive. Up to that time the Spirit had not been given, since Jesus had not yet been glorified.
Jn 19:34 - KJV: But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and water <5204>.


02476 isthmi histemi his'-tay-mee
a prolonged form of a primary staw stao stah'-o (of the same meaning, and used for it in certain senses - TDNT-7:638,1082; v
AV - stand 116, set 11, establish 5, stand still 4, stand by 3, misc 17, vr stand 2; 158
1) to cause or make to stand, to place, put, set
1a) to bid to stand by, [set up]
1a1) in the presence of others, in the midst, before judges, before members of the Sanhedrin;
1a2) to place
1b) to make firm, fix establish
1b1) to cause a person or a thing to keep his or its place
1b2) to stand, be kept intact (of family, a kingdom), to escape in safety
1b3) to establish a thing, cause it to stand 1b31) to uphold or sustain the authority or force of anything
1c) to set or place in a balance
1c1) to weigh: money to one (because in very early times before the introduction of coinage, the metals used to be weighed)
2) to stand
2a) to stand by or near
2a1) to stop, stand still, to stand immovable, stand firm
2a1a) of the foundation of a building
2b) to stand
2b1) continue safe and sound, stand unharmed, to stand ready or prepared
2b2) to be of a steadfast mind
2b3) of quality, one who does not hesitate, does not waiver


03319 mesov mesos mes’-os
from 3326; ; adj
AV - midst 41, among 6, from among + 1537 5, midnight + 3571 2, misc 5; 61
1) middle
2) the midst
3) in the midst of, amongst
====
Mt 10:16 - NIV: ...like sheep in THE MIDST of wolves....
Jesus could have sent His people to some quiet retreat to await the end of earth’s existence, just as He could have stayed in the quiet carpenter’s shop of Nazareth. But “the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost” – likewise the disciples He sends. [M.C. 10/30/1996]
Lu 17:11 - NIV: …Jesus traveled along the BORDER between Samaria and Galilee.


01492 eidw eido i'-do or oida oida oy'-da
a root word; TDNT-5:116, 673; v
AV - know 281, cannot tell + 3756 8, know how 7, wist 6, misc 19, see 314, behold 17, look 6, perceive 5, vr see 3, vr know 1; 667
1) to see 1a) to perceive with the eyes
1b) to perceive by any of the senses
1c) to perceive, notice, discern, discover
1d) to see 1d1) i.e., to turn the eyes, the mind, the attention to anything
1d2) to pay attention, observe
1d3) to see about something
1d31) i.e., to ascertain what must be done about it
1d4) to inspect, examine
1d5) to look at, behold
1e) to experience any state or condition
1f) to see, i.e., have an interview with, to visit
2) to know 2a) to know of anything
2b) to know, i.e., get knowledge of, understand, perceive
2b1) of any fact
2b2) the force and meaning of something which has definite meaning
2b3) to know how, to be skilled in
2c) to have regard for one, cherish, pay attention to (#1Th 5:12)
====
Actually, eidw / oida is “knowledge,” not of experience, but of perception and esp. of the intellect as the examples below indicate from Biblical usage. However, ginwskw<1097> is generally considered to be “experiential knowledge.” [M.C. 1/26/2000]



27 autov estin o opisw mou ercomenov ov emprosyen mou gegonen ou egw ouk eimi axiov ina lusw autou ton imanta tou upodhmatov

1:27 - He <846> it is <2076> (5748), who <3739> coming <2064> (5740) after <3694> me <3450> is preferred <1096> (5754) before <1715> me <3450>, whose <3739> <846> shoe’s <5266> latchet <2438> I <1473> am <1510> (5748) not <3756> worthy <514> to <2443> unloose <3089> (5661).

03694 opisw opiso op-is'-o
from the same as 3693 with enclitic of direction; TDNT-5:289,702; adv
AV - after 22, behind 6, back + 1519 + 3588 5, back 1, follow 1, backward + 1519 + 3588 1; 36
1) back, behind, after, afterwards 1a) of place: things that are behind
1b) of time: after


01096 ginomai ginomai ghin'-om-ahee
a prolongation and middle voice form of a primary verb; TDNT-1:681,117; v
AV - be 255, come to pass 82, be made 69, be done 63, come 52, become 47, God forbid + 3361 15, arise 13, have 5, be fulfilled 3, be married to 3, be preferred 3, not tr 14, misc 4, vr done 2; 678
1) to become, i.e. to come into existence, begin to be, receive being
2) to become, i.e. to come to pass, happen
2a) of events
3) to arise, appear in history, come upon the stage
3a) of men appearing in public
4) to be made, finished
4a) of miracles, to be performed, wrought
5) to become, be made
====
Jn 1:3 - NIV: Through him all things WERE MADE; without him nothing WAS MADE that HAS BEEN MADE.
The Holy Spirit is drawing a very clear and sharp distinction between the pre-incarnate Word and created things which had to be made. [M.C. 12/23/1998]

Jn 1:14 - NIV: The Word BECAME flesh....
There was never a time when the eternal Word did not exist, for John 1:1ff speaks of His eternal existence with God and as God – already “in the beginning.” John also bears witness to the fact that the eternal Word created all things. When God said, “Let there be light” (Genesis 1:3), therein was the Word, hard at work as the Creator.
There was a time, however, when the second Person of the Trinity was not yet true Man, namely, the time before He was conceived and born of the virgin Mary. Children have no trouble with this and simply believe what God tells us in His written Word, the Holy Scriptures, that Jesus was alive before He was born. As great as the fact of His eternal existence, so great is the miracle of God becoming the God-Man, Jesus Christ. [M.C. 12/21/1996]

Jn 1:27f - KJV: He it is, who coming after me is preferred <1096> before me, whose shoe’s latchet I am not worthy to unloose....30 This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred <1096> before me: for he was before me.

Jn 2:1f - KJV: And the third day there was <1096> a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there:...9 When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made <1096> wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom,
Jesus here shows His glory as God the Creator. He began with common H20. He made it into wine which has a very complicated molecular structure. And every element beyond hydrogen and oxygen had to be created by Jesus in order to make the wine. Simple sugar – glucose C6H12O6 – contained to some degree even in the driest wines, already shows the addition of carbon. And as the Creator, He not only made wine; He made the finest wine. [M.C. 3/31/2001]
Jn 15:7 - NIV: If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it WILL BE GIVEN you.


01715 emprosyen emprosthen em'-pros-then
from 1722 and 4314; ; adv
AV - before 41, in (one's) sight 2, of 1, against 1, in the sight of 1, in the presence of 1, at 1; 48
1) in front, before
1a) before, i.e., in that local region which is in front of a person or thing
1b) before, in the presence of, i.e., opposite to, over against one
1c) before, in the sight of
1d) before, denoting rank
====
Since an adverb does not take an object, this word also seems to be used as a prepostion in sentences such as John 1:30 (below) where we have emprosyen mou – literally: “before me.” [M.C. 10/23/1999]
Jn 1:30 - NIV: …A man who comes after me HAS SURPASSED me because he was before me.’
- NET: …A Man is coming after me who RANKS ABOVE me because He existed before me.
Ph 3:13 - NIV: …straining toward WHAT IS AHEAD,
CN: “those things ahead”   listed in vv.9 11.


05266 upodhma hupodema hoop-od'-ay-mah
from 5265; TDNT-5:310,702; n n
AV - shoe 10; 10
1) what is bound under, a sandal, a sole fastened to the foot with thongs


02438 imav himas hee-mas'
perhaps from the same as 260; ; n m
AV - latchet 3, thong 1; 4
1) a thong of leather, a strap
1a) in the NT of the thongs with which captives or criminals were either bound or beaten
1b) of the thongs or ties by which sandals were fastened to the feet
====
Mk 1:7 - KJV: And preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet <2438> of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.
Lu 3:16 - KJV: John answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water; but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet <2438> of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire:
Jn 1:27 - KJV: He it is, who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe’s latchet <2438> I am not worthy to unloose.
Ac 22:25 - KJV: And as they bound him with thongs <2438>, Paul said unto the centurion that stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned?


00514 axiov axios ax'-ee-os
probably from 71; TDNT-1:379,63; adj
AV - worthy 35, meet 4, due reward 1, unworthy + 3756 1; 41
1) weighing, having weight, having the weight of another thing of like value, worth as much
2) befitting, congruous, corresponding to a thing
3) of one who has merited anything worthy
3a) both in a good and a bad sense
====
Mt 10:37 - NIV: Anyone who loves his father or mother more than me is not WORTHY of me; anyone who loves his son or daughter more than me is not WORTHY of me;
Application: The thought here is the same as when the Lord says through Daniel to Belshazzar: “You have been weighed on the scales and found wanting” (Daniel 5:27. Also see Job 31:6; Psalm
62:9; Proverbs 16:2; 21:2; Isaiah 40:15.) The Lord is using picture language to show how He compares His perfect holiness to our desires and motives. Unless by faith we have the weight of Christ and His holiness on our side of the balance scale, we sinners are always found wanting, i.e., too light to satisfy the heavy requirements of the just and holy God. [M.C. 3/23/2001]


03089 luw luo loo'-o
a root word; TDNT-2:60 & 4:328,543; v
AV - loose 27, break 5, unloose 3, destroy 2, dissolve 2, put off 1, melt 1, break up 1, break down 1; 43
1) to loose any person (or thing) tied or fastened
1a) bandages of the feet, the shoes,
1b) of a husband and wife joined together by the bond of matrimony
1c) of a single man, whether he has already had a wife or has not yet married
2) to loose one bound, i.e., to unbind, release from bonds, set free
2a) of one bound up (swathed in bandages)
2b) bound with chains (a prisoner), discharge from prison, let go
3) to loosen, undo, dissolve, anything bound, tied, or compacted together
3a) an assembly, i.e., to dismiss, break up
3b) laws, as having a binding force, are likened to bonds
3c) to annul, subvert
3d) to do away with, to deprive of authority, whether by precept or act
3e) to declare unlawful
3f) to loose what is compacted or built together, to break up, demolish, destroy
3g) to dissolve something coherent into parts, to destroy
3h) metaph., to overthrow, to do away with



28 tauta en bhyabara egeneto peran tou iordanou opou hn iwannhv baptizwn

1:28 - These things <5023> were done <1096> (5633) in <1722> Bethabara <962> beyond <4008> Jordan <2446>, where <3699> John <2491> was <2258> (5713) baptizing <907> (5723).

00962 bhyabara Bethabara bay-thab-ar-ah’
of Hebrew origin 01004 and 05679 ynyh tyb; ; n pr loc
AV - Bethabara 1; 1
Bethabara = "house of the ford"
1) a place beyond Jordan, where John was baptising. This may correspond to Bethbarah (fords of Abarah), the ancient ford of the Jordan on the road to Gilead
====
Jn 1:28 - KJV: These things were done in Bethabara <962> beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing.
- NIV: This all happened at BETHANY on the other side of the Jordan, where John was baptizing.


04008 peran peran per'-an
apparently accusative case of an obsolete derivative of peiro (to "pierce"); ; adv
AV - other side 10, beyond 7, over 3, on the other side 2, farther side 1; 23
1) beyond, on the other side
====
Mt 4:15 - KJV: … BEYOND Jordan…
- NIV: …ALONG the Jordan…
- NET: …ACROSS the Jordan…
Paul E. Kretzmann: “…What Isaiah had written, chapter 8,22; 9,1.2, found its fulfillment in the ministry of Jesus in this region. Here the tribes Zebulun and Naphthali [sic.] had formerly had their homes; their country lay towards or alongside of the sea; it was a place where races mix, a border population, mainly on this side, the west side of the Jordan, according to Hebrew usage of the word, or beyond Jordan, according to the Greek usage, containing a reference to Perea, which was also a scene of Christ’s activity.” 9

Mk 5:21 - NIV: When Jesus had again crossed over by boat to THE OTHER SIDE of the lake, a large crowd gathered around him while he was by the lake.
Jesus had been in “the region of the Gerasenes” (Mark 5:1), on the east side. He now returns to the more populated west side on His way “to his home town” (Mark 6:1) of Nazareth. [M.C. 7/20/2000]


02446 Iordanhv Iordanes ee-or-dan'-ace
of Hebrew origin 03383 Ndry; TDNT-6:608,921; n pr loc
AV - Jordan 15; 15
Jordan = “the descender”
1) the one river of Palestine, has its course of little more than 200 miles (300 km), from the roots of Anti-Lebanon to the head of the Dead Sea.
++++
(136 miles in a straight line) It is the river of the “great plain” of Palestine - the “descender” if not the “river of God” in the book of Psalms, at least that of his chosen people throughout their history.
There were fords over against Jericho, to which point the men of Jericho pursued the spies. Higher up were the fords or passages of Bethbarah, where Gideon lay in wait for the Midianites, and where the men of Gilead slew the Ephraimites. These fords undoubtedly witnessed the first recorded passage of the Jordan in the OT (Gn 32:10). Jordan was crossed, over against Jericho, by Joshua. From their vicinity to Jerusalem the lower fords were much used. David probably passed over them in one instance to fight the Syrians (2 Sa 10:17; 17:22).
Thus there were two customary places at which the Jordan was fordable; and it must have been at one of these, if not at both, that baptism was afterward administered by John and by the disciples of Jesus. Where our Lord was baptised is not stated expressly, but it was probably at the upper ford.
These fords were rendered so much more precious in those days from two circumstances. First, it does not appear that there were then any bridges thrown over or boats regularly established on the Jordan; and secondly, because “Jordan overflowed all his banks all the time harvest” (Jos 3:15). The channel or bed of the river became brimful, so that the level of the water and of the banks was then the same.
[Dr. Salah Merrill, in his book “Galilee in the Time of Christ” (1881), says, “Near Tarichaea, just below the point where the Jordan leaves the lake of Galilee, there was in Christ’s time a splendid bridge across the river, supported by ten piers.]
The last feature which remains to be noticed in the scriptural account of Jordan is its frequent mention as a boundary: “over Jordan,” or “the other side,” or “beyond Jordan” were expressions as familiar to the Israelites as “across the water.” In one sense indeed, that is, in so far as it the eastern boundary of the land of Canaan, it was the eastern boundary of the promised land (Nu 34.12).
The Jordan rises from several sources near Panium and passes through the lakes of Merom and Gennesaret. The two principal features in its course are its descent and its windings. From its fountain heads to the Dead Sea it rushes down on continuous inclined plane, only broken by a series of rapids or precipitous falls. Between the Lake of Gennesaret and the Dead Sea there are 27 rapids. The depression of the Lake of Gennesaret below the level of the Mediterranean is 653 ft, and that of the Dead Sea 1316 ft. The whole descent from its source to the Dead Sea is 3000 feet. Its width varies from 45 - 180 feet, and it is from 3 - 12 ft deep. Its sinuosity is not so remarkable in the upper part of its course. The only tributaries to the Jordan below Gennesaret are Yarmuk (Hieromax) and the Zerka (Jabbok).
Not a single city ever crowned the banks of the Jordan. Still Bethshan and Jericho to the west, Gerasa, Pella and Gadara to the east of it were important cities, and caused a good deal of traffic between the two opposite banks.



S#392 = John 1:6-8,19-24 ADVENT 3 Series B 12/12/1993
CW 11
SHARE JOHN'S SHINING CONFESSION
I. Know yourself. (vv.19-23)
II. Know your mission. (vv.24-25,6-8)
III. Know your Savior. (vv.26-28)



S#675 = John 1:1-14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series A 12/25/1998
CW 67
THIS CHILD IS IMMANUEL
I. Eternal Creator (vv.1-5)
II. Powerful Light (vv.6-13)
III. Present Glory (v.14)



S#834 = John 1:1-14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series A 12/25/2001
CW 48
When Christmas Morn Is Dawning
I. The Light of God shines. (vv.1-9)
II. We see God’s glory. (vv.10-14)



S#887 = John 1:6-8, 19-28 ADVENT 3 Series B 12/15/2002
CW 9

Surveyor, shine the light. (vv.6-8)
Sign man, warn the way. (vv.19-21)
Security, drive on down. (vv.22-28)

+ or +


Advent Man
Testify your message. (vv.6-8)
Confess your identity. (vv.19-21)
Know your relationship to Christ. (vv.22-28)

1 Becker, Siegbert W. REVELATION The Distant Triumph Song. (Northwestern Publishing House, Milwaukee, Wisconsin) 1985, p. 56.
2 Becker, Siegbert W. REVELATION The Distant Triumph Song. (NPH, Milwaukee, Wisconsin) 1985, p. 56.
3 Becker, Siegbert W. REVELATION The Distant Triumph Song. (NPH, Milwaukee, Wisconsin) 1985, p. 72.
4 Becker, Siegbert W. The Foolishness of God: the place of reason in the theology of Martin Luther. Northwestern Publishing House, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 1982.
5 Kittel, Gerhard, and Friedrich, Gerhard, Editors, The Theological Dictionary of the New Testament, Abridged in One Volume, (Grand Rapids, Michigan: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company) 1985.
6 Quoted on Luther Statue at Wisconsin Lutheran Seminary, Mequon, Wisconsin.
7 Luther’s Works, Vol., 26, pp.11f.
8 HOLY BIBLE: New Testament – New Evangelical Translation (NET), Second edition (January 1992), with major revisions, 15,000 copies. (Cleveland, Ohio: NET Publishing), 1992, p.579.
9 Kretzmann, Paul E. Popular Commentary Of The Bible. St. Louis, Missouri: Concordia Publishing House, 1924. NT I, p.20.
< 上页 下页 >
最后更新于 2012年7月24日 星期二 08:45
回到页首
