---
weight: 3
slug: The-Gospel-of-John-Cordes-3
title:  John01-01-14
author: Pastor Cordes
kecheng: The Gospel Of John-Co
---

S#339 = John 1:14 Series A 01/03/1993

S#392 = John 1:6-8,19-24 ADVENT 3 Series B 12/12/1993

S#558 = John 1:14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series B 12/25/1997

S#675 = John 1:1-14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series A 12/25/1998

S#834 = John 1:1-14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series A 12/25/2001


1 jEn ajrch`/ h\n oJ lovgo", kai; oJ lovgo" h\n pro;" to;n qeovn, kai; qeo;" h\n oJ lovgo". 1

1 en arch hn o logov kai o logov hn prov ton yeon kai yeov hn o logov 2

1:1 - ¶ In <1722> the beginning <746> was <2258> (5713) the Word <3056>, and <2532> the Word <3056> was <2258> (5713) with <4314> God <2316>, and <2532> the Word <3056> was <2258> (5713) God <2316>.

00746 arch arche ar-khay'
from 756; TDNT-1:479,81; n f
AV - beginning 40, principality 8, corner 2, first 2, misc 6; 58
1) beginning, origin
2) the person or thing that commences, the first person or thing in a series, the leader
3) that by which anything begins to be, the origin, the active cause
4) the extremity of a thing 4a) of the corners of a sail
5) the first place, principality, rule, magistracy 5a) of angels and demons
====
Bullinger: 6. arch, beginning; then, spoken of dignity, etc., the first place, i.e., the power, rule, dominion. 3

Jn 1:1 - NIV: In the BEGINNING was the Word…. 4

Ep 1:21 - NIV: far above all RULE and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age but also in the one to come.
02258 hn en ane
imperfect of 1510; ; v
AV - was 267, were 115, had been 12, had 11, taught + 1321 4, stood + 2476 4, misc 42, vr was 1; 457
1) I was, etc.


03056 logov logos log'-os
from 3004; TDNT-4:69,505; n m
AV - word 218, saying 50, account 8, speech 8, Word (Christ) 7, thing 5, not tr 2, misc 32; 330
1) of speech
1a) a word, uttered by a living voice, embodies a conception or idea
1b) what someone has said
1b1) a word
1b2) the sayings of God
1b3) decree, mandate or order
1b4) of the moral precepts given by God
1b5) Old Testament prophecy given by the prophets
1b6) what is declared, a thought, declaration, aphorism, a weighty saying, a dictum, a maxim
1c) discourse
1c1) the act of speaking, speech
1c2) the faculty of speech, skill and practice in speaking
1c3) a kind or style of speaking
1c4) a continuous speaking discourse-instruction
1d) doctrine, teaching
1e) anything reported in speech; a narration, narrative
1f) matter under discussion, thing spoken of, affair, a matter in dispute, case, suit at law
1g) the thing spoken of or talked about; event, deed
2) its use as respect to the MIND alone
2a) reason, the mental faculty of thinking, meditating, reasoning, calculating
2b) account, i.e., regard, consideration
2c) account, i.e., reckoning, score
2d) account, i.e., answer or explanation in reference to judgment
2e) relation, i.e., with whom as judge we stand in relation
2e1) reason would
2f) reason, cause, ground
3) In John, denotes the essential Word of God, Jesus Christ, the personal wisdom and power in union with God, his minister in creation and government of the universe, the cause of all the world's life both physical and ethical, which for the procurement of man's salvation put on human nature in the person of Jesus the Messiah, the Second Person in the Godhead, and shone forth conspicuously from His words and deeds.
++++ [The Online Bible – good correction to previous note. M.C. 12/23/1999]
This term was familiar to the Jews and in their writings long before a Greek philosopher named Heraclitus used the term Logos around 600 B.C. to designate the divine reason or plan which coordinates a changing universe. This word was well suited to John's purpose in John 1. See Gill on "John 1:1."
====
Mt 22:15 - NIV: Then the Pharisees went out and laid plans to trap him in his WORDS.
How foolish for frail mortals to try to trap the Incarnate Word of God in His words!
Some linguists in the 1990’s have concluded that all languages come from a common source (Time magazine article, ca. 1995). Some believe the world’s original language is Hebrew, named after Eber (Genesis 10:24f). Scripture records the first words spoken as those of the Creator: “And God said, ‘Let there be light,’ and there was light” (Genesis 1:3). In that very word was Jesus, “the Word” that “became flesh and lived for a while among us...full of grace and truth” (John 1:14). And when man’s pride refused to glorify God with his words, God came down and confused the languages into babbling at Babel (Genesis 11:1-9). When proclaiming salvation required the miraculous understanding of unstudied languages, the Holy Spirit came as promised on Jesus’ apostles on Pentecost (Acts 2).
Application: We are not to try to wrestle with God’s Word, but “humbly accept the word planted in you, which can save you” (James 1:21). [M.C. 10/25/1996]

Jn 1:1f - NIV: In the beginning was the WORD, and the WORD was with God….14 The WORD became flesh and lived for a while among us....
Application: The full expression of God’s will took on human flesh and blood in the miracle of the incarnation. He did not appear and disappear mysteriously, but came in a way that
all could see and believe. And through this Second Person of the Triune God, born of the virgin Mary, God communicates to His world: Himself – the one and only escape from the misery of eternal death because of sin. [M.C. 10/23/1999]

Jn 15:3 - NIV: You are already clean because of the WORD I have spoken to you.
Lutheran Confessions: “In these matters which concern the external, spoken Word, we must hold firmly to the conviction that God gives no one his Spirit or grace except through or with the external Word which comes before.... Accordingly, we should and must constantly maintain that God will not deal with us except through his external Word and sacrament. Whatever is attributed to the Spirit apart from such Word and sacrament is of the devil.” 5


02316 yeov theos theh'-os
of uncertain affinity; a deity, especially (with 3588) the supreme Divinity; TDNT-3:65,322; n m
AV - God 1320, god 13, godly 3, God-ward + 4214 2, misc 5; 1343
1) a god or goddess, a general name of deities or divinities
2) the Godhead, trinity
2a) God the Father, the first person in the trinity
2b) Christ, the second person of the trinity
2c) Holy Spirit, the third person in the trinity
3) spoken of the only and true God
3a) refers to the things of God
3b) his counsels, interests, things due to him
4) whatever can in any respect be likened unto God, or resemble him in any way
4a) God's representative or viceregent
4a1) of magistrates and judges
++++
Christ is called God: John 1:1,20:28; 1 John 5:20; Ro 9:5; Tm 2:13; He 1:8, etc.
====
The Holy Spirit is called God: Ac 5:3,5

Jn 20:17 - NIV: Jesus said, “Do not hold on to me, for I have not yet returned to the Father. Go instead to my brothers and tell them, ‘I am returning to my Father and your Father, to MY GOD and your God.’”
Application: This passage records Jesus’ comforting sermon to Mary Magdalene in which He first calls His disciples, “My brothers….” Now when He refers to “My God,” He also says,
“Your God.” Since Jesus paid the full debt for our sins under God’s justice, it is pure joy to think of God in such intimate terms that I am His and He is mine. God cannot punish us twice for sins He already punished on Jesus. On the resurrection side of Golgotha, Luther liked to say, “God’s justice is on our side.” A just and holy God cannot punish us again because it would dishonor Jesus for His awesome sacrifice. And with His mercy triumphing over judgment (James 2:13), God has made us His own dear children in Jesus Christ, our Brother. [M.C. 4/03/1999]



2 ou|to" h\n ejn ajrch`/ pro;" to;n qeovn.

2 outov hn en arch prov ton yeon

1:2 - The same <3778> was <2258> (5713) in <1722> the beginning <746> with <4314> God <2316>.

01722 en en en
a primary preposition denoting (fixed) position (in place, time or state), and (by implication) instrumentality (medially or constructively), i.e., a relation of rest (intermediate between 1519 and 1537); TDNT-2:537,233; prep
AV – in 1902, by 163, with 140, among 117, at 113, on 62, through 39, misc 265; 2801
1) in, by, with etc.
====
To the Greek mind, this preposition pictures someone or something being ‘in the sphere of.’
en is used with the dative. When indicating place, this is like the dative of fixed location. [M.C. 1/26/2000]



3 pavnta diÆ aujtou` ejgevneto, kai; cwri;" aujtou` ejgevneto oujde; e{n. o} gevgonen

3 panta di autou egeneto kai cwriv autou egeneto oude en o gegonen

1:3 - All things <3956> were made <1096> (5633) by <1223> him <846>; and <2532> without <5565> him <846> was <1096> <0> not <3761> any thing <1520> made <1096> (5633) that <3739> was made <1096> (5754).

Strangely, the Nestle-Aland text puts a period right in the middle of e{n. o} gevgonen . This is not, however, the way most translators including KJV (above), NIV, NASB, etc. render the verse. And it seems very unnatural to try to connect o} gevgonen with what follows in verse 4. [M.C. 12/18/2001]

03956 pav pas pas
including all the forms of declension; TDNT-5:886,795; adj
AV - all 748, all things 170, every 117, all men 41, whosoever 31, everyone 28, whole 12, all manner of 11, every man 11, no + 3756 9, every thing 7, any 7, whatsoever 6, whosoever + 3739 + 302 3, always + 1223 3, daily + 2250 2, any thing 2, no + 3361 2, not tr 7, misc 26; 1243
1) individually 1a) each, every, any, all, the whole, everyone, all things, everything
2) collectively 2a) some of all types
++++
..." the whole world has gone after him" Did all the world go after Christ? "then went all Judea, and were baptized of him in Jordan." Was all Judea, or all Jerusalem, baptized in Jordan? "Ye are of God, little children", and the whole world lieth in the wicked one". Does the whole world there mean everybody? The words "world" and "all" are used in some seven or eight senses in Scripture, and it is very rarely the "all" means all persons, taken individually. The words are generally used to signify that Christ has redeemed some of all sorts --some Jews, some Gentiles, some rich, some poor, and has not restricted His redemption to either Jew or Gentile ... (C.H. Spurgeon from a sermon on Particular Redemption)
====
Answer to Spurgeon: The famous preacher points to obvious examples of hyperbole as when we say in English: “Everybody knows J.F.K.” We show we understand this to be intended overstatement because we do not look for someone unfamiliar with John F. Kennedy in order to accuse the speaker of dishonesty. We understand from the context what the speaker meant.
But if one were to say in a court of law, “Everyone at the plant knew the furnace was about to explode,” it would be ruled as speculation – unprovable. In each case, the context decides. And God always speaks to us in the context which He decides in His Holy Word.
Spurgeon’s argument is essentially weak because he does not produce the “seven or eight senses in Scripture” to prove that “it is very rarely the ‘all’ means all persons, taken individually” – at least they are not spelled out in the brief quote. He only looks at one other sense, the most extreme he can find, then tries to argue away universal redemption.
Spurgeon is also in error to argue that because there are some Bible examples of “all” used in hyperbole, that therefore the words “world” and “all” are “generally used to signify that Christ has redeemed some of all sorts….” As the Scripture examples below illustrate, the context decides. And when “all” people are called sinners and then “all” are said to be justified (See Romans 3:23f.), the Holy Spirit is obviously making an all-encompassing statement about individual souls – condemned sinners by nature, and forgiven souls by grace.
Universal justification / redemption is on the one hand, the ultimate expression of God’s grace and is meant to be proclaimed as fact, great and glorious Good News! On the other hand it is the greatest of tragedies that unbelief denies or scoffs at what God has done for us all in Christ. Why would the God who loved us so much as to substitute Himself for us in the Person of His Son, want to make salvation difficult? [M.C. 1/11/2000]

Application: Pav is a precious word in scripture. Imagine if it were missing from the following passages, discussed in greater detail in the exegetical remarks that follow. [M.C. 4/3/2003]
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age.” (Matthew 28:19-20 NIV)
But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his Son, purifies us from all sin. (1 John 1:7 NIV)
And he died for all, that those who live should no longer live for themselves but for him who died for them and was raised again. (2 Corinthians 5:15 NIV)
So then, no more boasting about men! All things are yours, (1 Corinthians 3:21 NIV)
And my God will meet all your needs according to his glorious riches in Christ Jesus. (Philippians 4:19 NIV)

Jn 3:15f - NIV: that EVERYONE who believes in him may have eternal life. 16 For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that WHOEVER believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life.
How blessed we are that Spurgeon’s limit (above) is not that of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. When Jesus says, “All,” He means, “All.” Otherwise, how could even the believers be sure of their salvation? [M.C. 6/15/2000]

Jn 17:2ff - KJV: As thou hast given him power over all <3956> flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as <3956> thou hast given him….7 Now they have known that all things <3956> whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee….10 And all <3956> mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them….21 That they all <3956> may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.
The four Strong-numbered usages of pav in Jesus’ High Priestly Prayer (John 17) show Jesus is using the word in the normal sense without any exceptions. This includes verse 21. The visible church of Christ on earth may look fragmented by denominations and human opinion. But the invisible Church of Jesus Christ, the body of all believers in Him as their Savior, is completely unified. The Lord’s Apostle Paul echoes this in Ephesians 4: “There is one body and one Spirit— just as you were called to one hope when you were called— one Lord, one faith, one baptism; one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all.” (Ephesians 4:4-6 NIV) Jesus’ prayer has been answered in the affirmative. And this will at last be seen by all when we’re home in heaven with our Lord. [M.C. 5/18/2004]

Ac 2:39 - NIV: The promise is for...ALL who are far off....
Application: God’s gracious promise of forgiveness in Christ is all-inclusive, for “all nations” (Matthew 28:19), Jews and Gentiles, parents and children alike. Thus we see that the LORD is
far more gracious and compassionate (Exodus 34:6f) than the Anabaptists want to let Him be when they deny baptism to their own children and insist that the children of others should not have the blessing either. Are we Christians really listening to our Lord when He says children too can believe? Jesus Himself says, “But if anyone causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a large millstone hung around his neck and to be drowned in the depths of the sea” (Matthew 18:6). [M.C. 4/19/1996]

Ac 3:18 - NIV: But this is how God fulfilled what he had foretold through ALL the prophets....
Who can doubt the Messianic message of the Old Testament which is everywhere proclaimed in the New Testament? As Jesus Himself says about the Old Testament: “These are the Scriptures that testify about me” (John 5:39). [M.C. 4/2/1997]

Ro 3:19 - NIV: Now we know that whatever the law says, it says to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be silenced and the WHOLE world held accountable to God.
Application: Here the Holy Spirit sets aside man’s reason that concludes there must be an “age of accountability” before which human beings are not responsible for their sins. The
Lord says, “…the whole world.” Even King David, a man after the Lord’s own heart, included himself in this when he honestly admitted, “Surely I was sinful at birth, sinful from the time my mother conceived me” (Psalm 51:5). [M.C. 2/5/2000]

Ro 3:23f - NIV: There is no difference, 23 for ALL have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, 24 and are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus.
This seems to be a passage to which Spurgeon is referring in The Online Bible quote above ==== since the redemption of Jews and Gentiles is in the context. Yet Spurgeon, like so many preachers from the Reformed-Calvinistic camp, would agree that when it says, “All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,” it does mean every individual without exception, i.e., universal depravity. However they get to the second part of the same sentence and do not want “all” to be the subject of “are justified freely….” Yet this is clearly what the God-inspired Holy Scriptures say. Ulrich Zwingli’s faulty presupposition that “faith must be reasonable” can only lead to this: a denial of Universal Justification. Then salvation depends on man’s decision instead of God’s grace. [M.C. 1/11/2000]

2 Co 3:2 - NIV: You yourselves are our letter…known and read by EVERYBODY.
This may be one of the rather rare instances which Spurgeon (above) claims, “The words ‘world’ and ‘all’ are used in some seven or eight senses in Scripture, and it is very rarely the ‘all’ means all persons, taken individually.” (Spurgeon, however, offers no proof in his subsequent attempt to deny the clear Bible teaching of Universal / Objective Justification.)
Perhaps 2 Corinthians 3:2 is an example of Pauline hyperbole. However, this is not necessarily the case – in the light of Romans 10:18 (above), where the Holy Spirit has Paul quoting Psalm 19:4: “Their voice has gone out into all the earth, their words to the ends of the world.” What was true in the first century A.D. for Paul was also true for David in 1000 B.C. God’s Word, especially the work of the Law written on human hearts, had already reached the entire earth, “so that every mouth may be silenced and the whole world held accountable to God” (Romans 3:19). If all we had were the voice of conscience coupled with evidence of the Creator’s hand in nature, it would be enough to know that God is wise and powerful and hates sin, that we have a desperate problem. We would still be “men…without excuse” (Romans 1:20).
Application: In our day Americans sometimes ask, “What about people in Africa who have not heard?” as if God has no right to hold them accountable. Interestingly enough, Chinese Bible
students ask the same question. This ought always burden our hearts, not in criticism of God, but in concern for the souls of fellow sinners:
The Great Commission makes it our responsibility to tell them (Matthew 28:18-20; Romans 10:14-18).
In our modern age it is also true, however, that radio waves literally reach everywhere including in an Amazon jungle mud hut pictured in National Geographic (ca. 1987) with a stick-and-rope table topped with a radio. About the same time National Public Radio aired a segment about how all the Amazon tribes had come out of the jungle following the message of Evangelical missionaries, and that some had already returned to their animism in the early 1980’s.
The privileged “burden” of mission work is ours until Christ’s return. And we ought not take it lightly. Yet we also should not discount the grace and power of the Holy Spirit to get the Word out. The question we need to ask every doubting scoffer is this: “Now you are hearing the Gospel. What will you do with it?” [M.C. 2/2/2000]
We can add to this list of possibilities the Nicodemus-type Christians who have not yet found the courage to speak up for Christ or to publicly confess their faith in Him. At first Nicodemus the Pharisee came to Jesus at night to find out His identity. (John 3) But after our Lord’s crucifixion Nicodemus came boldly with Joseph of Arimathea and asked Pilate for the body (John 19:38ff) in order to bury it.
Application: For Asians and other first generation Christians concerned about their unbelieving ancestors, these examples may provide a certain amount of comfort. Our
gracious God assures us that His Word has spread throughout the world. And though much is hidden from our eyes as we carry out Christ’s Great Commission to keep on discipling all ethnic groups (Matthew 28:18 literal), only God really knows those who are His (2 Timothy 2:19), i.e., who believes and who does not. [M.C. 2/11/2006]


01096 ginomai ginomai ghin'-om-ahee
a prolongation and middle voice form of a primary verb; TDNT-1:681,117; v
AV - be 255, come to pass 82, be made 69, be done 63, come 52, become 47, God forbid + 3361 15, arise 13, have 5, be fulfilled 3, be married to 3, be preferred 3, not tr 14, misc 4, vr done 2; 678
1) to become, i.e. to come into existence, begin to be, receive being
2) to become, i.e. to come to pass, happen 2a) of events
3) to arise, appear in history, come upon the stage 3a) of men appearing in public
4) to be made, finished 4a) of miracles, to be performed, wrought
5) to become, be made
====
Jn 1:3 - NIV: Through him all things WERE MADE; without him nothing WAS MADE that HAS BEEN MADE.
The Holy Spirit is drawing a very clear and sharp distinction between the pre-incarnate Word and created things which had to be made. [M.C. 12/23/1998]

Jn 1:14 - NIV: The Word BECAME flesh....
There was never a time when the eternal Word did not exist, for John 1:1ff speaks of His eternal existence with God and as God – already “in the beginning.” John also bears witness to the fact that the eternal Word created all things. When God said, “Let there be light” (Genesis 1:3), therein was the Word, hard at work as the Creator.
There was a time, however, when the second Person of the Trinity was not yet true Man, namely, the time before He was conceived and born of the virgin Mary. Children have no trouble with this and simply believe what God tells us in His written Word, the Holy Scriptures, that Jesus was alive before He was born. As great as the fact of His eternal existence, so great is the miracle of God becoming the God-Man, Jesus Christ. [M.C. 12/21/1996]

Jn 2:1 - KJV: And the third day there was <1096> a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there:
Jn 2:9 - KJV: When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made <1096> wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom,
Jesus here shows His glory as God the Creator. He began with common H20. He made it into wine which has a very complicated molecular structure. And every element beyond hydrogen and oxygen had to be created by Jesus in order to make the wine. Simple sugar – glucose C6H12O6 – contained to some degree even in the driest wines, already shows the addition of carbon. And as the Creator, He not only made wine; He made the finest wine. [M.C. 3/31/2001]

He 1:4 - KJV: BEING MADE so much better than the angels…
- NIV: So HE BECAME as much superior to the angels as the name he has inherited is superior to theirs.
Unfortunately, the KJV could leave the mistaken impression that Jesus was a created being and thus not true God. This misinterpretation would, however, only be enabled by ripping the verse out of the context of this text and the rest of Scripture. The NIV is better in this case since it agrees with the immediate and remote context of God’s infallible, inerrant Word. [M.C. 12/23/1999]



4 ejn aujtw`/ zwh; h\n, kai; hJ zwh; h\n to; fw`" tw`n ajnqrwvpwn:

4 en autw zwh hn kai h zwh hn to fwv twn anyrwpwn

1:4 - In <1722> him <846> was <2258> (5713) life <2222>; and <2532> the life <2222> was <2258> (5713) the light <5457> of men <444>.

02222 zwh zoe dzo-ay'
from 2198; TDNT-2:832,290; n f
AV - life 133, lifetime 1; 134
1) life 1a) the state of one who is possessed of vitality or is animate
1b) every living soul
2) life 2a) of the absolute fulness of life, both essential and ethical, which belongs to God, and through him both to the hypostatic "logos" and to Christ in whom the "logos" put on human nature
2b) life real and genuine, a life active and vigorous, devoted to God, blessed, in the portion even in this world of those who put their trust in Christ, but after the resurrection to be consummated by new accessions (incl. a more perfect body), and to last for ever.
For Synonyms see entry 5821
====
Becker: “’Life’ is the enjoyment of God’s blessings, temporal and eternal.”
Conversely, “’Death’ is separation from some or all of God’s blessings, temporal and eternal.”

Lu 12:15 - KJV: And he said unto them, Take heed, and beware of covetousness: for a man's life <2222> consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth.

Jn 1:4 - NIV: In Him was LIFE, and that LIFE was the light of men.
Jn 10:10 - NIV: I have come that they may have LIFE and have it to the full.
Note that this is said in the context of coming in and going out and finding pasture through Jesus, “the gate for the sheep” (v.7). [M.C. 5/2/1996]
Jn 14:6 - NIV: I am the way and the truth and the LIFE. No one comes to the Father except through me.


05457 fwv phos foce
from an obsolete phao (to shine or make manifest, especially by rays, cf 5316, 5346); TDNT-9:310,1293; n n
AV - light 68, fire 2; 70
1) light 1a) the light
1a1) emitted by a lamp
1a2) a heavenly light such as surrounds angels when they appear on earth
1b) anything emitting light
1b1) a star
1b2) fire because it is light and sheds light
1b3) a lamp or torch
1c) light, i.e., brightness
1c1) of a lamp
2) metaph. 2a) God is light because light has the extremely delicate, subtle, pure, brilliant quality
2b) of truth and its knowledge, together with the spiritual purity associated with it
2c) that which is exposed to the view of all, openly, publicly
2d) reason, mind
2d1) the power of understanding esp. moral and spiritual truth
For Synonyms see entry 5817
====
Mt 5:14 - NIV: You are the LIGHT of the world.
Jesus speaking to His disciples in the Sermon on the Mount. As we reflect the light of Jesus who also says, “I am the LIGHT of the world,” we too are used by God to shine His love into the dark places of the earth. [M.C. 12/23/1998]

Jn 1:4 - NIV: In him was life and that life was the LIGHT of men.

Jn 3:19-21 - NIV: This is the verdict: LIGHT has come into the world, but men loved darkness instead of LIGHT because their deeds were evil. Everyone who does evil hates the LIGHT, and will not come into the LIGHT for fear that his deeds will be exposed. But whoever lives by the truth comes into the LIGHT, so that it may be seen plainly that what he has done has been done through God.
Application: Coupled with Mt 5:13 above, Jesus here explains in John 3, perhaps still talking to Nicodemus, why Christians encounter such irrational animosity from unbelievers, even
when trying to do good for society. Jesus told His disciples in the upper room the night He was betrayed: “If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first” (John 15:18). Who in all of history ever did more for our world (John 3:16) and the people in it than the “Light of the world” (John 8:12) when “He died for all”? [M.C. 2/2/1996]

1 Jn 1:5 - NIV: ...God is LIGHT; in him there is no darkness at all.


00444 anyrwpov anthropos anth'-ro-pos
from 435 and ops (the countenance, from 3700); man-faced, i.e., a human being; TDNT-1:364,59; n m
AV - man 552, not tr 4, misc 3; 559
1) a human being, whether male or female
1a) generically, to include all human individuals
1b) to distinguish man from beings of a different order
1b1) of animals and plants
1b2) of from God and Christ
1b3) of the angels
1c) with the added notion of weakness, by which man is led into a mistake or prompted to sin
1d) with the adjunct notion of contempt or disdainful pity
1e) with reference to two fold nature of man, body and soul
1f) with reference to the two fold nature of man, the corrupt and the truly Christian man, conformed to the nature of God
1g) with reference to sex, a male
2) indefinitely, someone, a man, one
3) in the plural, people
4) joined with other words, merchantman
====
A.G., 68 - ‘human being, man.’...



5 kai; to; fw`" ejn th`/ skotiva/ faivnei, kai; hJ skotiva aujto; ouj katevlaben.

5 kai to fwv en th skotia fainei kai h skotia auto ou katelaben

1:5 - ¶ And <2532> the light <5457> shineth <5316> (5719) in <1722> darkness <4653>; and <2532> the darkness <4653> comprehended <2638> (5627) it <846> not <3756>.

05316 fainw phaino fah'-ee-no
prolongation for the base of 5457; TDNT-9:1,1244; v
AV - appear 17, shine 10, be seen 2, seem 1, think 1; 31
1) to bring forth into the light, cause to shine, shed light
2) shine 2a) to shine, be bright or resplendent
2b) to become evident, to be brought forth into the light, come to view, appear
2b1) of growing vegetation, to come to light
2b2) to appear, be seen
2b3) exposed to view
2c) to meet the eyes, strike the sight, become clear or manifest
2c1) to be seen, appear
2d) to appear to the mind, seem to one's judgment or opinion


04653 skotia skotia skot-ee’-ah
from 4655; TDNT-7:423,1049; n f
AV - darkness 14, dark 2; 16
1) darkness
2) the darkness due to want of light
3) metaph. used of ignorance of divine things, and associated wickedness, and resultant misery in hell
====
Jn 1:5 - NIV: The light shines in the DARKNESS, but the DARKNESS has not understood it.

1 Jn 1:5 - NIV: ...God is light; in him there is no DARKNESS at all.
Application: The effects of sin's darkness are first seen in Adam and Eve after they fell into sin and lost God's image.
Ignorance: They tried to hide from the omnipresent God.
Wickedness: They blame each other and God for their sins.
Misery: Childbearing is painful, their once beautiful love-relationship in marriage is marred by fear and selfishness, family is disrupted, work is frustrated, life ends in dust.
Application: Along with the ignorance, wickedness and misery of darkness, is the death that results for souls without light, just as plants die in the darkness. People without God’s light, die
spiritually, physically and in their souls. Hence it is the greatest blessing when God calls us “out of darkness into his wonderful light” (1 Peter 2:9). [M.C. 12/24/1996]

02638 katalambanw katalambano kat-al-am-ban’-o
from 2596 and 2983; TDNT-4:9,495; v
AV - take 3, apprehend 3, comprehend 2, come upon 1, attain 1, find 1, overtake 1, obtain 1; 15
1) to lay hold of
1a) to lay hold of so as to make one’s own, to obtain, attain to, to make one’s own, to take into oneself, appropriate
1b) to seize upon, take possession of
1b1) of evils overtaking one, of the last day overtaking the wicked with destruction, of a demon about to torment one
1b2) in a good sense, of Christ by his holy power and influence laying hold of the human mind and will, in order to prompt and govern it
1c) to detect, catch
1d) to lay hold of with the mind
1d1) to understand, perceive, learn, comprehend
====
A.G. – 1.—a. act. & pass. seize, win, attain, make one’s own...come into possession of an inheritance...of the winning of a prize 1 Co 9:24 – “Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one gets the prize? Run in such a way as to get the prize.” – As a result of...Phil 3:12a...b.... 6

The Holy Spirit inspired the use of katalambanw at least eight times in the Gospels and Acts:
Mk 9:18 - KJV: And wheresoever he taketh <2638> him, he teareth him: and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away: and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out; and they could not.
Note the intensity of action in this compound of kata + lambanw. See implications below on John 1:5.

Jn 1:5 - KJV: And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended <2638> it not.
- NIV: The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not UNDERSTOOD a it.
a 5 Or overcome
- NETNT: and the Light is shining in the darkness, and the darkness has not PUT IT OUT. c
c - 5 Or ‘the darkness has not comprehended it.’ The Greek probably has both meanings here – a characteristic of John….
The Greek prefix kata- is an intensifier (like the German prefixes ver- and zer-). Whereas lambano by itself simply means “to receive,” when prefixed by kata-, it means to receive like a American-style football receiver reaching and clutching the ball for a game-winning score. In the mental, cognative sense, the sin-darkened world cannot “get a grip” or “grasp” the Light of Jesus.
The other possibility of the darkness “overcoming” the Light, would be in the literal sense of kata- (‘down’) + lambano (‘take’) = “take down” (hard) like a soldier in hand-to-hand combat attempting to overpower and destroy his enemy.
It is a characteristic of John in his Gospel to use words with dual meanings (not contradictory, but valid and substantiating meanings), as the NETNT footnote above states.
Thus the preacher can expound on katalambanw in two spheres:
academia which continually tries to set aside the Gospel of Jesus Christ through “scientific” findings, and
society as a whole which always wants to overwhelm God’s Gospel truth with its unbridled immorality (debauchery).
All their attempts are in vain, another example of how “the peoples exhaust themselves for nothing, the nations’ labor is only fuel for the flames” (Jeremiah 51:58). [M.C. 12/23/1998]

Creationist / Biblical Apologist, Ken Ham: I am often asked how people change their biases. This is a good question. As a Christian, the only way I can answer is to say that in this area it has to be a work of the Holy Spirit. The Bible teaches that we either walk in light or in darkness (#Ac 26:18), gather or scatter, are for Christ or against Him (#Mt 12:30). The Bible clearly declares that no person is neutral and that all do have a bias. Since it is the Holy Spirit who convicts and convinces people of the truth, it is only through the work of the Holy Spirit that our biases can change. As Christians, our job is to bring the Word of God to people in a clear and gracious way, and pray that the Spirit might use our words to open hearts and minds to Christ. I believe Christians understand bias better than others. All Christians were once lost sinners biased against God. They have seen how Jesus Christ can change their bias as He transforms their lives through the power of His Spirit. 7



6 jEgevneto a[nqrwpo", ajpestalmevno" para; qeou`, o[noma aujtw`/ jIwavnnh":

6 egeneto anyrwpov apestalmenov para yeou onoma autw iwannhv

1:6 - There was <1096> (5633) a man <444> sent <649> (5772) from <3844> God <2316>, whose <846> name <3686> was John <2491>.

00649 apostellw apostello ap-os-tel'-lo
from 575 and 4724; TDNT-1:398,67; v
AV - send 110, send forth 15, send away 4, send out 2, misc 2; 133
1) to order (one) to go to a place appointed
2) to send away, dismiss 2a) to allow one to depart, that he may be in a state of liberty
2b) to order one to depart, send off
2c) to drive away
====
Mk 3:31 - NIV: Then Jesus’ mother and brothers arrived. Standing outside, THEY SENT someone in to call him.
This is another time when Mary shows herself to be a sinner in need of a Savior (Luke 1:47). Instead of trusting her Son to do the sending, she once again has other ideas about how He should conduct His ministry. (See also Luke 2:48ff; John 2:1-5.) Yet Jesus always proves to be our perfect Savior by lovingly and respectfully correcting His mother while nevertheless obeying the Fourth Commandment without sin. [M.C. 7/1/2000]
Lu 4:18 - KJV: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent <649> me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set <649> at liberty them that are bruised,
Jn 3:17 - NIV: For God DID not SEND his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him.


03844 para para par-ah'
a root word; TDNT-5:727,771; prep
AV - of 51, with 42, from 24, by ... side 15, at 12, than 11, misc 45; 200
1) from, of at, by, besides, near
====
This preposition can be used in compounds to express the warmth and good feelings of close companionship. Note the difference between parakaleo and prokaleo. (See M.C. note on <3870>.) Para- seems to have the connotation of putting an arm around the shoulders of someone by your side to encourage (parakaleo) that individual. But it can also be used in the sense of getting too close for comfort as in parazeloo: ‘provoke to jealousy’ <3863>, where perhaps the idea is cozying up to someone else besides one’s rightful spouse. As always, the context must decide. [M.C. 2/16/1996]
Jn 1:6 - NIV: There came a man who was sent FROM God; his name was John.
- NET: A man came – God sent him – his name was John.
The NIV is more literal, and yet cannot seem to get across the thought of closeness in this preposition which most literally would be translated: “…sent from beside God.” This is the close relationship between God and the prophets through the in-breathing of the Holy Spirit. [M.C. 12/23/1998]
Jn 14:17 - NET: …because he [another Comforter (Helper), the Spirit of Truth] remains WITH you and will be in you.
- Literal: …for BESIDE you he will remain and in you will he be.
These verses about the Holy Spirit certainly support the connotation of para- as close and caring. The whole context of the occasion in the Upper Room, of Jesus washing His disciples feet in chapter 13, of Jesus’ Last Will and Testament, of His words in these verses and of His High Priestly Prayer to His heavenly Father in chapter 17 – all give us the feel of an intensely close and loving family, in fact more so than we can humanly conceive as Jesus says so simply and beautifully in 14:20. [M.C. 5/8/1999]

He 12:19 - NIV: …so that those who heard it BEGGED that no futher word be spoken to them,
Here in combination with aiteomai, “to ask,” the prefix of para- pictures such an intensity of desire on the part of the Israelites at Sinai not to be terrified any longer by the direct Word from the LORD, that they came up beside Moses, thronging around him and “begging” that he relieve them of this distress. [M.C. 9/3/1998]


03686 onoma onoma on'-om-ah
from a presumed derivative of the base of 1097 (cf 3685); TDNT-5:242,694; n n
AV - name 193, named 28, called 4, surname + 2007 2, named + 2564 1, not tr 1; 229
1) name: univ. of proper names
2) the name is used for everything which the name covers, everything the thought or feeling of which is aroused in the mind by mentioning, hearing, remembering, the name, i.e., for one's rank, authority, interests, pleasure, command, excellences, deeds etc.
3) persons reckoned up by name
4) the cause or reason named: on this account, because he suffers as a Christian, for this reason
====
“a good name” = “a good reputation” [M.C. 12/23/1999]
Application: According to the Arndt/Gingrich (A.G.) lexicon, the expression “eis to onoma” has been discovered on the papyri, scraps of ancient “paper” used as sales receipts to transfer
ownership from one party to another. If a slave came into the market place in bondage, he/she could be bought “eis to onoma,” into the name of a new master. Likewise, we come into this world in bondage to sin and Satan until we are baptized “eis to onoma,” “into the name/ownership of” the Triune God - Father, Son, and Holy Spirit - for His care and keeping. [M.C. 4/19/1996]
Application: God’s Name is His reputation. The LORD protects His reputation with the Second Commandment and passages like Isaiah 42:8: “I am the LORD; that is my name!
I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols.” He tells us that “a good name is more desirable than riches; to be esteemed is better than silver or gold” (Proverbs 22:1). He gives us the Eighth Commandment to protect our good name. But the Name of the LORD God is especially important for us sinners because our eternal salvation depends on us trusting Him as our Savior from sin. Thus God’s Name is everything by which He makes Himself known, i.e., His holy, precious Word, the Bible. [M.C. 1993]
Lu 2:21 - NIV: ...he was named Jesus, the NAME the angel had given him before he had been conceived.
Ph 2:9 - NIV: …God…gave him the NAME that is above every NAME,
“The Name” = hw:hyÒ the covenant God of free and faithful grace. By ascribing this Name to Jesus, the Father is agreeing with Jesus’ divine names, divine attributes and divine works which clearly indicate that He is true God while at the same time true Man. [M.C. 4/14/2000]
Application: God’s name is His reputation which He has revealed in Jesus Christ. For us sinners under the curse of God’s law, there would only be fear and terror because of his Name: “See, the Name
of the LORD comes from afar, with burning anger and dense clouds of smoke; his lips are full of wrath, and his tongue is a consuming fire” (Isaiah 30: 27) as Judgment Day reveals the “fire pit...deep and wide, with an abundance of fire and wood; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of burning sulfur, sets it ablaze” (Isaiah 30:33). But in Christ we see God as the One who prefers to be merciful: “Who is a God like you, who pardons sin and forgives the transgression of the remnant of his inheritance? You do not say angry forever but delight to show mercy. You will again have compassion on us; you will tread our sins underfoot and hurl all our iniquities into the depths of the sea” (Micah 7:18f). [M.C. 10/05/1996]

Re 2:13 - NIV: I know where you live—where Satan has his throne. Yet you remain true to my name. You did not renounce your faith in me, even in the days of Antipas, my faithful witness, who was put to death in your city—where Satan lives.
Becker: “The ‘name’ of Jesus has to do with everything we know about Jesus. ‘Name,’ both in English and Greek, is often a synonym for ‘reputation.’ A ‘good name,’ for example, has to do with all the good things that are known about a man. What we know of Jesus is found in the gospel. To hold fast to the name of Jesus is to hold fast to the gospel, to cling to what we have learned about the Savior.” 8
Re 2:17 - NIV: He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, I will give some of the hidden manna. I will also give him a white stone with a new NAME written on it, known only to him who receives it.
Becker: “In biblical terms, to give someone a name means to describe him. When God gives someone a new name, this person is no longer what he was before. There will be a new type of existence for his people. We may think here especially of the exchange of this present troubled world for the bliss of heaven. No one can ever know that bliss fully until he experiences it, and in that sense the new name is unknown to all except those who have received it. It certainly also includes the hidden righteousness of the believing child of God which makes him an heir of the bliss of heaven. Since this is a righteousness we have by faith, and since faith is conviction concerning unseen things (Hebrews 11:1), this righteousness is not something anyone knows except the person who has it.” 9
Re 3:12 - NIV: Him who overcomes I will make a pillar in the temple of my God. Never again will he leave it. I will write on him the NAME of my God and the NAME of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which is coming down out of heaven from my God; and I will also write on him my new NAME.
Becker: “To write one’s name on something denotes ownership...belong to God forever... belong to the city of God...new Jerusalem, not built with the hands of men...chapter 21....‘new name’... described in terms completely different from those which described him in his state of humiliation, when he wore the garb of a servant. Today and forevermore he is the glorious victor over sin and death, over the devil and hell. Once he was despised and rejected by men, but now he is King of kings and Lord of lords, and those on whom he has written his new name belong to him, and will share in the glory of that new name.” 10


02491 Ioannhv Ioannes ee-o-an'-nace
of Hebrew origin 03110 Nnxwy; ; n pr m
AV – John (the Baptist) 92, John (the apostle) 36, John (Mark) 4, John (the chief priest) 1; 133
John = "Jehovah is a gracious giver"
1) John the Baptist was the son of Zacharias and Elisabeth, the forerunner of Christ. By order of Herod Antipas he was cast into prison and afterwards beheaded.
2) John the apostle, the writer of the Fourth Gospel, son of Zebedee and Salome, brother of James the elder. He is that disciple who (without mention by name) is spoken of in the Fourth Gospel as especially dear to Jesus and according to the traditional opinion is the author of the book of Revelation.
3) John surnamed Mark, the companion of Barnabas and Paul #Ac 12:12.
4) John a certain man, a member of the Sanhedrin #Ac 4:6.



7 ou|to" h\lqen eij" marturivan i{na marturhvsh/ peri; tou` fwtov", i{na pavnte" pisteuvswsin diÆ aujtou`.

7 outov hlyen eiv marturian ina marturhsh peri tou fwtov ina pantev pisteuswsin di autou

1:7 - The same <3778> came <2064> (5627) for <1519> a witness <3141>, to <2443> bear witness <3140> (5661) of <4012> the Light <5457>, that <2443> all <3956> men through <1223> him <846> might believe <4100> (5661).

03141 marturia marturia mar-too-ree’-ah
from 3144; TDNT-4:474,564; n f
AV - witness 15, testimony 14, record 7, report 1; 37
1) a testifying 1a) the office committed to the prophets of testifying concerning future events
2) what one testifies, testimony, i.e. before a judge
====
Jn 1:7 - Greek: ou|to" h\lqen eij" marturivan i{na marturhvsh/ <3140> peri; tou` fwtov", i{na pavnte" pisteuvswsin diÆ aujtou`.
- NIV: he came as a WITNESS to testify concerning that light…
- NET: He came TO TESTIFY, that is, to testify about the Light …
- Literal: This one came into A TESTIFYING, in order that he might testify <3140> about the light, in order that everyone might believe through him.
Our English language struggles to capture the simple Greek of John the Evangelist. The idea is that John the Baptist came into the sphere of the prophets who had been testifying about the coming Christ. John's immediate purpose was to testify / witness about Christ, but all this ultimately was intended to capture the hearts and souls of the hearers by faith in Jesus for heaven. [M.C. 12/23/1998]


03140 marturew martureo mar-too-reh'-o
from 3144; TDNT-4:474,564; v
AV - bear witness 25, testify 19, bear record 13, witness 5, be a witness 2, give testimony 2, have a good report 2, misc 11; 79
1) to be a witness, to bear witness, i.e., to affirm that one has seen or heard or experienced something, or that he knows it because taught by divine revelation or inspiration
1a) to give (not to keep back) testimony
1b) to utter honourable testimony, give a good report
1c) conjure, implore
====
Total number of usages in the Synoptics = 3 passages:
Mt 23:31 - KJV: Wherefore ye be witnesses <3140> unto yourselves, that ye are the children of them which killed the prophets.
Lu 4:22 - KJV: And all bare <3140> him witness <3140>, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son?
Lu 11:48 - KJV: Truly ye bear witness <3140> that ye allow the deeds of your fathers: for they indeed killed them, and ye build their sepulchres.
In John usage of marturew = 31 passages. The strong witnessing character of John’s Gospel is especially evident in his last two usages:
Jn 19:35 - KJV: And he that saw it bare record <3140>, and his record is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe.
Jn 21:24 - KJV: This is the disciple which testifieth <3140> of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true.


05457 fwv [See above on 1:4.]


01223 dia dia dee-ah'
primary preposition denoting the channel of an act; TDNT - 2:65,149; prep
AV - by (241) - through (88) - for (58)
- because (52) - for...sake (47) - therefore + 5124 (44)
- with (16) - for this cause + 5124 (14) - misc (86) [646]
1) through 1a) of place 1a1) with
1a2) in
1b) of time 1b1) throughout
1b2) during
1c) of means 1c1) by
1c2) by the means of
2) through 2a) the ground or reason by which something is or is not done
2a1) by reason of
2a2) on account of
2a3) because of for this reason
2a4) therefore
2a5) on this account
====
Ep 2:8 - KJV: For by grace are ye saved THROUGH faith....
- NIV: For it is by grace you have been saved, THROUGH faith....
Both the KJV and NIV translate correctly according to the context which gives all the credit and glory to God for our salvation – Sola Gratia, by grace alone. To translate “because of faith” would be wrong, since that would make it seem as if God saw our faith first and then decided to save us. The opposite is true according to this verse which also calls faith “the gift of God.” In fact, the entire context shows this is all God’s work, not ours, beginning with God raising us to life (the “first resurrection” - Revelation 20:5) out of our sin-dead state (2:1), giving us new life in Christ (2:5f), granting us God’s gift of salvation and the faith to receive it here in 2:8.
Application: The first thought in The Online Bible definition above says it very well: dia- is a “primary preposition denoting the channel of an act.” We can rightly think of faith as the channel
through which God pours the water of life from His bounties into our hearts. Thus faith is the receiving organ, a funnel for God’s grace in Christ. [M.C. 3/7/1997]


04100 pisteuw pisteuo pist-yoo'-o
from 4102; TDNT-6:174,849; v
AV - believe 239, commit unto 4, commit to (one's) trust 1, be committed unto 1, be put in trust with 1, be commit to one's trust 1, believer 1; 248
1) to think to be true, to be persuaded of, to credit, place confidence in
1a) of the thing believed
1a1) to credit, have confidence
1b) in a moral or religious reference
1b1) used in the NT of the conviction and trust to which a man is impelled by a certain inner and higher prerogative and law of soul
1b2) to trust in Jesus or God as able to aid either in obtaining or in doing something: saving faith
1bc) mere acknowledgment of some fact or event: intellectual faith
2) to entrust a thing to one, i.e., his fidelity
2a) to be intrusted with a thing
====
Note the confusion of “faith” and “reason” under 1b) above.
More in keeping with Scripture: “Faith” is the hand that receives God’s promises. “Faith” is not a decision, but “a gift of God” as is also the salvation it receives (Ephesians 2:8f). The Bible shows that “faith” and reason or rational intelligence are two different things. For instance, infants and children can have faith. Jesus speaks of “these little ones (tw`n mikrw`n touvtwn tw`n pisteuovntwn eij" ejmev) who believe in me” (Matthew 18:6; Mark 9:42), though the context shows they were too young to have reached what some like to call “the age of reason” – an expression not found in the Holy Scriptures.
And yet, “faith” is not unreasonable (Isaiah 1:18). It simply serves in a ministerial (servant) role rather than magisterial (master) role. True, saving “faith” lets God be God (Isaiah 55:8f). [M.C. 1/10/2000]
Dr. Siegbert Becker in his book, The Foolishness of God, aptly notes: “It is not Christianity that needs to be made reasonable, but reason that needs to be made Christian.” 11 [NPH – M.C. 4/1/1999]

2 Ti 3:14 - NIV: …continue in what you have learned and have BECOME CONVINCED OF (ejpistwvqh"), because you know those from whom you learned it.
Here we see the ministerial role of reason where God gave the gift of faith to Timothy “from infancy” (v.15) and concomitant with faith, the conviction that the Holy Scriptures are true, making one “wise for salvation.” The need for repentance (metanoevw - ‘change of mind’) is obvious: Change the natural mind about sin, self and God, and one has faith, love and trust in God – all worked by the Holy Spirit through Word and sacraments, the Means of Grace. [M.C. 5/2/1996]

ILLUSTRATIONS:
‘to rest one’s whole weight upon’ - as when sitting on a chair or walking across a bridge.
The story is told of a man who came to a frozen river and had to get to the other side. In fear he got down on his stomach and began to crawl across, trying desperately to spread out his weight and not crack the ice. Every time the ice shifted, as frozen waters commonly do, he thought for sure he would plunge into the frigid depths. Soon he heard the sound of whistling. He carefully turned to look behind him only to see a team of horses pulling a heavily loaded sleigh onto the ice. The driver kept right on whistling merrily all the way to the other side and disappeared through the trees. Sheepishly the man got up and finished his crossing on foot. Moral: He who knows the Way can trust his weight.
Same story in poetical form from WELS Stewardship materials 1995:
A traveler crossed a frozen stream
In trembling fear one day;
Later a teamster drove across;
And whistled all the way.
Great faith and little faith alike
Were granted safe convoy;
One had the pangs of needless fear,
The other all the joy.
Then there was the man on the bus growing more tired by the minute as he watched a woman clinging to her packages trying to keep them from falling off her lap. Finally the man said, “Lady, if you put your bundles on the floor, the bus will carry both you and them.” Moral: “Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved” (Psalm 55:22).
8 oujk h\n ejkei`no" to; fw`", ajllÆ i{na marturhvsh/ peri; tou` fwtov".

8 ouk hn ekeinov to fwv all ina marturhsh peri tou fwtov

1:8 - He was <2258> (5713) not <3756> that <1565> Light <5457>, but <235> was sent to <2443> bear witness <3140> (5661) of <4012> that Light <5457>.

05457 fwv [See above on 1:4.]

03140 marturew [See above on 1:7.]



9 \Hn to; fw`" to; ajlhqinovn, o} fwtivzei pavnta a[nqrwpon, ejrcovmenon eij" to;n kovsmon.

9 hn to fwv to alhyinon o fwtizei panta anyrwpon ercomenon eiv ton kosmon

1:9 - That was <2258> (5713) the true <228> Light <5457>, which <3739> lighteth <5461> (5719) every man <3956> <444> that cometh <2064> (5740) into <1519> the world <2889>.

00228 alhyinov alethinos al-ay-thee-nos'
from 227; TDNT-1:249,37; adj
AV - true 27; 27
1) that which has not only the name and resemblance, but the real nature corresponding to the name, in every respect corresponding to the idea signified by the name, real, true genuine
1a) opposite to what is fictitious, counterfeit, imaginary, simulated or pretended
1b) it contrasts realities with their semblances
1c) opposite to what is imperfect defective, frail, uncertain
2) true, veracious, sincere
====
NET, C. THE SPECIAL HANDLING OF CERTAIN GREEK TERMS
1. Alethinos compared with alethes
“John carefully distinguishes between the Greek words alethinos and alethes. Most English translations do not; they render them both with ‘true.’ In several cases this is fine; however, in certain contexts the translation ‘true’ for alethinos can lead to a false or misleading connotation.
“Alethinos (used at Jn 1:9; 4:23,37; 6:32; 7:28; 8:16; 15:1; 17:3; 19:35) basically means ‘genuine’ or ‘primary,’ whereas alethes means ‘true’ in contrast to ‘false.’ John’s use of alethinos in John 1:9 emphasizes that John the Baptizer is a secondary light, one who receives illumination from Jesus the primary Light. It is important to note that John the Gospel writer uses alethinos, not alethes, since he does not wish to leave the impression that John the Baptizer’s message was false while Jesus’ message was true. (Alethinos is the word used in the historic Nicene Creed for the word ‘very’ in the phrase ‘very God of very God,’ thus commmunicating that Jesus is ‘genuine God.’) Note that alethinos can be translated ‘true’ when properly understood. It is translated as such on four different occasions in the Gospel of JOHN. Alethinos is also found at Luke 16:11; 1 Thessalonians 1:9; Hebrews 8:2; 9:24; 10:22; 1 John 2:8; 5:20; Revelation 3:7,14; 6:10; 15:3; 16:7; 19:2,9,11; 21:5; 22:6.” 12

The Holy Spirit inspired John to use alhyinov at least eight times in his Gospel:
Jn 1:9 - KJV: That was the true <228> Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
Jn 4:23 - KJV: But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true <228> worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him.
Jn 4:37 - KJV: And herein is that saying true <228>, One soweth, and another reapeth.
Jn 6:32 - KJV: Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven; but my Father giveth you the true <228> bread from heaven.
Jn 7:28 - KJV: Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and ye know whence I am: and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true <228>, whom ye know not.
Jn 15:1 - KJV: I am the true <228> vine, and my Father is the husbandman.
- NIV: I am the TRUE vine....
- NET: I am the GENUINE Vine.... (See NET, C. – above.)
Jn 17:3 - KJV: And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true <228> God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.
Jn 19:35 - KJV: And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true <228>: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe.


02889 kosmov kosmos kos'-mos
probably from the base of 2865; TDNT-3:868,459; n m
AV - world 186, adorning 1; 187
1) an apt and harmonious arrangement or constitution, order, government
2) ornament, decoration, adornment, i.e., the arrangement of the stars, 'the heavenly hosts', as the ornament of the heavens. #1Pe 3:3
3) the world, the universe
4) the circle of the earth, the earth
5) the inhabitants of the earth, men, the human family
6) the ungodly multitude; the whole mass of men alienated from God, and therefore hostile to the cause of Christ
7) world affairs, the aggregate of things earthly
7a) the whole circle of earthly goods, endowments riches, advantages, pleasures, etc, which although hollow and frail and fleeting, stir desire, seduce from God and are obstacles to the cause of Christ
8) any aggregate or general collection of particulars of any sort
8a) the Gentiles as contrasted to the Jews (#Ro 11:12 etc)
8b) of believers only, #John 1:29; 3:16; 3:17; 6:33; 12:47 #1Co 4:9; 2Co 5:19 [*]
For Synonyms see entry 5921
====
*What a tragedy to limit these passages to “believers only” when God the Holy Spirit says they apply to “the world”! This denies the depth and riches of God’s grace in Christ which was for all the world of sinners lost in unbelief – like the dying thief, Saul of Tarsus and me. These passages underscore the Bible truths of Universal Justification – everyone justified by God in Christ; and Objective Justification – everyone justified whether he believes it or not. According to Jesus Himself in Mark 16:16, the only thing that can damn anyone is unbelief. Let the grace of God remain as a blanket covering the world. And let no one pull back that blanket by refusing to believe that his sins too are covered in Christ. [M.C. 11/03/1995]

Jn 3:16 - NET: For God loved the WORLD so much that He gave His one-and-only Son, so that everyone who believes in Him would not perish but have everlasting life.

Jn 17:14 - NIV: ...the WORLD has hated them, for they are not of the WORLD any more than I am of the world.
Here “world” is used in the sense of 6) above, i.e., all the unbelievers whose thinking is earthbound and ungodly. [M.C. 5/09/1997]

1 Co 1:27 - NIV: But God chose the foolish things of the WORLD to shame the wise....
Application: Here “the WORLD” would also include secular humanists who consider human reason to be the answer to every question or problem. They show this by constantly calling for more
education as if humans will naturally do what is right as long as they know all the facts.
Confounding the “worldly wisdom” of these humanists are the sad statistics of increased teenage pregnancies, child abuse and abortion despite decades of humanistic / amoral “sex education” programs.
One poll in 1995 indicated that even when given all the information about proper diet, teenagers still prefer “junk food.” What parent would be surprised by that?
Sometimes it seems that the more the secular humanists try to educate their way to a solution, the worse the problem gets – no matter which problem they are working on.
By assuming that man is basically good, a higher, or at least some form of evolution, their recipes can never take into account the infection of original sin. And after failing to clean the inside of the cup (Matthew 23:26), they remain blind to the deadly poison of their sin-bred concoctions. From this, dear Lord, deliver us. [M.C. 1/24/1996]



10 ejn tw`/ kovsmw/ h\n, kai; oJ kovsmo" diÆ aujtou` ejgevneto, kai; oJ kovsmo" aujto;n oujk e[gnw.

10 en tw kosmw hn kai o kosmov di autou egeneto kai o kosmov auton ouk egnw

1:10 - He was <2258> (5713) in <1722> the world <2889>, and <2532> the world <2889> was made <1096> (5633) by <1223> him <846>, and <2532> the world <2889> knew <1097> (5627) him <846> not <3756>.

01097 ginwskw ginosko ghin-oce'-ko
a prolonged form of a primary verb; TDNT-1:689,119; v
AV - know 196, perceive 9, understand 8, misc 10; 223
1) to learn to know, come to know, get a knowledge of perceive, feel
1a) to become known
2) to know, understand, perceive, have knowledge of
2a) to understand
2b) to know
3) Jewish idiom for sexual intercourse between a man and a woman
4) to become acquainted with, to know
For Synonyms see entry 5825
====
The Holy Spirit’s Bible usage distinguishes between two Greek words which basically mean “to know,” but which take a more specific slant in their context: oida means ‘to know facts,’ whereas ginwskw means ‘to know by experience.’ Example: I may “know” (oida) that a race car is powerful, but until I have driven one, I cannot really “know” (ginwskw) by experience. Example (mixing nouns and verbs to make a point): A man can oida that it is painful to have a baby, but only a woman can ginwskw this. [M.C. – 1/15/2000]

Jn 1:10 - NIV: …the world DID not RECOGNIZE him.
- NET: …the world DID not KNOW Him.
Dr. Becker's meaning (See below on Re 2:24.) would fit here too: 'to adopt as one's own' – i.e., the world not only did not “recognize” Jesus (NIV), or “know” Him (NET), they would not “adopt Him as their own” (Becker) personal Savior either. Such is the stubbornness of sin. [M.C. 12/23/1998]

Jn 10:27 - NIV: My sheep listen to my voice; I KNOW them, and they follow me.
Application: What comfort in Jesus’ choice of words! He does not just know us intellectually (oida) from afar. But as our sympathetic High Priest “who has been tempted in every way,
just as we are – yet was without sin” (Hebrews 4:15), who “himself suffered when he was tempted” (Hebrews 2:18), who “took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows” (Isaiah 53:4) – Jesus, the Good Shepherd, more than anyone else knows us by experience (ginwskw). Every tear we shed, He cries with us. Every heartache we suffer, is His heartache too. Every sigh of “Abba, Father,” is His own loving prayer of intercession for sinners all. No one else can truly understand our soul’s deep grief and pain (1 Corinthians 2:11), but Jesus has been there. He knows by experience and He cares. And Jesus our loving Lord and Savior has the power and loving determination to help. His own reputation (Name) as the Good Shepherd depends on it. [M.C. 1/15/2000]

Ph 4:5 - KJV: Let your moderation be KNOWN unto all men.
- NIV: Let your gentleness be EVIDENT to all.
Application: Obviously, the Lord wants our neighbor to have more than an intellectual knowledge of the Christian’s gentleness, which would imply mere descriptions and promises. Instead He
says through James, “Be doers of the Word and not hearers only” (James 1:22). Our Lord wants people around us to know by experience our gentleness that mirrors the mercy and kindness of Christ in action. [M.C. 10/15/1996]

Re 2:24 - KJV: But unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many as have not this doctrine, and which have <1097> not known <1097> the depths of Satan, as they speak; I will put upon you none other burden.
Becker: “The words of the Savior imply that by tolerating this woman they were endangering their own hold on the truth, but as long as they did not ‘know’ her teaching they would not be punished in the same way as she and her supporters would be. To ‘know’ often means ‘to adopt as one’s own.’ That is evidently its meaning here.” 13



11 eij" ta; i[dia h\lqen, kai; oiJ i[dioi aujto;n ouj parevlabon.

11 eiv ta idia hlyen kai oi idioi auton ou parelabon

1:11 - He came <2064> (5627) unto <1519> his own <2398>, and <2532> his own <2398> received <3880> (5627) him <846> not <3756>.

02398 idiov idios id'-ee-os
of uncertain affinity; ; adj
AV - his own 48, their own 13, privately 8, apart 7, your own 6, his 5, own 5, not tr 1, misc 20; 113
1) pertaining to oneself, one's own, belonging to oneself
====
Mk 6:31 - NIV: Then, because so many people were coming and going that they did not even have a chance to eat, he said to them, “Come with me BY YOURSELVES to a quiet place and get some rest.”
Application: During the 1977-78 school year at the old Northwestern College in Watertown, Wisconsin, Dean Edward Lindemann who taught the Harmony of the Gospels, applied this passage
to pastors who tend to feel guilty when taking vacations. He pointed out that it is the will of our Lord for our comfort and for our instruction that we take time off to be with our families and with our Lord to rest and recharge physically and spiritually. Jesus knows what we need and loves us personally enough to tell us for that reason alone. But He also knows what is best for His kingdom.
Perhaps an added thought which bears repeating is that we pastors take ourselves too seriously at times, forgetting that the Lord who built His Church without our efforts will continue to preserve His Church by Word and sacraments. We need to trust Him and then go enjoy our vacations. [M.C. 8/10/2000]

Jn 1:11 - KJV: He came unto his own <2398>, and his own <2398> received him not.
Jn 1:41 - KJV: He first findeth his own <2398> brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ.


03880 paralambnw paralambano par-al-am-ban'-o
from 3844 and 2983; TDNT-4:11,495; v
AV - take 30, receive 15, take unto 2, take up 2, take away 1; 50
1) to take to, to take with oneself, to join to oneself
1a) an associate, a companion
1b) metaph.
1b1) to accept or acknowledge one to be such as he professes to be
1b2) not to reject, not to withhold obedience
2) to receive something transmitted
2a) an office to be discharged
2b) to receive with the mind
2b1) by oral transmission: of the authors from whom the tradition proceeds
2b2) by the narrating to others, by instruction of teachers (used of disciples)
====
Mt 17:1 - NIV: ...Jesus TOOK WITH HIM Peter, James and John....
Para + lamabnw emphasises that this was more than a passing friendship or association. They were not just traveling companions. Here the Lord Jesus, the Teacher, ‘receives alongside’ Himself His closest disciples in order to transmit to them a spectacular vision of His deity. Jesus expects all His disciples to receive (lambnw) the divine truth of this vision. Before the day is done, they will also hear the heavenly Father command the same attentive, receptive listening to all the words of Jesus. [M.C. 2/16/1996]

Mt 24:40 - NIV: …one WILL BE TAKEN and the other left.
Our poor English language is not able to capture the richness of the Holy Spirit’s word here. As in the other examples cited, this is the ‘receiving beside’ where our returning Lord Christ takes us home to be with Him forever in heaven.
In a parallel passage the Holy Spirit uses aJrpaghsovmeqa: “After that, we who are still alive and are lift WILL BE CAUGHT up with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will be with the Lord forever” (1 Thessalonians 4:17). The implication of these two verbs is the Lord’s energetic, determined fulfillment of His promise in John 14:3 (below). Also, by saying “forever” in connection with the Rapture, the Holy Spirit sets aside any thought of a millennialistic rule on this earth. Judgment Day is the final chapter of this earth’s existence, and ends forever our time of grace to repent. For “man is destined to die once, and after that to face judgment” (Hebrews 9:27). [M.C. 3/2/2000]

Jn 14:3 - KJV: I will come again and RECEIVE you to myself....
Application: The warmth of our eternally close companionship with Jesus emanates from the Holy Spirit’s choice of paralambnw. It reminds us that “the eternal God is your refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms” (Deuteronomy 33:27). [M.C. 5/2/1996]



12 o{soi de; e[labon aujtovn, e[dwken aujtoi`" ejxousivan tevkna qeou` genevsqai, toi`" pisteuvousin eij" to; o[noma aujtou`,

12 osoi de elabon auton edwken autoiv exousian tekna yeou genesyai toiv pisteuousin eiv to onoma autou

1:12 - But <1161> as many as <3745> received <2983> (5627) him <846>, to them <846> gave he <1325> (5656) power <1849> to become <1096> (5635) the sons <5043> of God <2316>, even to them that believe <4100> (5723) on <1519> his <846> name <3686>:

01325 didwmi didomi did'-o-mee
a prolonged form of a primary verb (which is used as an altern. in most of the tenses); TDNT-2:166,166; v
AV - give 365, grant 10, put 5, show 4, deliver 2, make 2, misc 25; 413
1) to give
2) to give something to someone
2a) of one's own accord to give one something, to his advantage
2a1) to bestow a gift
2b) to grant, give to one asking, let have
2c) to supply, furnish, necessary things
2d) to give over, deliver
2d1) to reach out, extend, present
2d2) of a writing
2d3) to give over to one's care, intrust, commit
2d3a) something to be administered
2d3b) to give or commit to some one something to be religiously observed
2e) to give what is due or obligatory, to pay: wages or reward
2f) to furnish, endue
3) to give
3a) to cause, profuse, give forth from oneself
3a1) to give, hand out lots
3b) to appoint to an office
3c) to cause to come forth, i.e., as the sea, death and Hell are said to give up the dead who have been engulfed or received by them
3d) to give one to someone as his own
3d1) as an object of his saving care
3d2) to give one to someone, to follow him as a leader and master
3d3) to give one to someone to care for his interests
3d4) to give one to someone to whom he already belonged, to return
4) to grant or permit one
4a) to commission
====
Jn 6:65 - NIV: ...no one can come to me unless the Father HAS ENABLED him.
- NET: ...a person can come to Me only if the Father GIVES him [the power to come].
The NET is much closer to the Greek original and more clearly shows that coming to the Father by believing in Jesus (the only way to come - John 14:6) is a gift given by God. This is no surprise to anyone who believes Ephesians 2:8f. [M.C. 8/21/1997]
Ac 5:31 - KJV: Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour, for to give <1325> repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.
Ac 5:32 - KJV: And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given <1325> to them that obey him.
Application: The nature of true repentance is shown in the fact that God gives it along with the Holy Spirit to His people. This is helpful especially at those times when our sinful nature does
not feel like repenting. A teenager may be so angry at his parents that he does not really want to be sorry. A drug addict and alcoholic may enjoy the euphoric feeling of his substance abuse. An adulterer or homosexual may enjoy the passionate emotions of his sin. But with King David we pray, “Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me” (Psalm 51:10). Then we need to brace ourselves as the Lord kindly shows us the depth of our sin and our need for a Savior, even while causing us to put our faith and trust in Him to help us overcome our sins. [M.C. 4/19/2001]

Ro 5:5 - NIV: And hope does not disappoint us, because God has poured out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom he HAS GIVEN us.
Application: How comforting it is to remember that the Holy Spirit and all the gifts He brings (Galatians 5:22f) is Himself a Gift given by both the Father and the Son (John 15:26) through Word and
Sacraments. When we need more of the grace and wisdom He brings, we need only ask our heavenly Father from whom comes “every good and perfect gift” (James 1:5,17). Then we want to let our gracious Comforter answer our prayer by digging deeper and more earnestly into His Word of truth as treasured up in the Holy Scriptures.
Application: Thus Jesus promises to fathers (Luke 11:11) in particular: “If you [fathers] then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!” (Luke 11:13). [M.C. 6/4/1998]

1 Jn 3:1 - KJV: Behold, what manner of love (ajgavphn) the Father HATH BESTOWED upon us, that we should be called the sons of God….
- NIV: How great is the love the Father HAS LAVISHED on us…
- NASB: See how great a love the Father HAS BESTOWED upon us …
- NET: See how greatly the Father has loved us – we are called God’s children, and that is what we are…
- Luther: Sehet, welch eine Liebe hat uns der Vater ERZEIGT, daß wir Gottes Kinder sollen heißen!
erzeigen, I. v.t. show, render, do (kindness etc.) (Dat., to). 2. v.r. show or prove o.s. (als, to be).14
All the translators including Luther try to indicate the warm and inviting context of the Father’s agape-love toward all believers in Jesus. In doing so, however, we nearly lose the sense of the gift in didwmi . Since God makes us His children by the “Spirit of adoption” (Romans 8:15) which He gives in Baptism (Acts 2:38f), the NIV’s “lavished” agape connects well with the baptismal laver and the Word-powered water that washes our sins away (Acts 22:16). This is, however, the most interpretive of the translations listed. [M.C. 5/10/2000]


01849 exousia exousia ex-oo-see'-ah
from 1832 (in the sense of ability); TDNT-2:562,238; n f
AV - power 69, authority 29, right 2, liberty 1, jurisdiction 1, strength 1; 103
1) power of choice, liberty of doing as one pleases
1a) leave or permission
2) physical and mental power
2a) the ability or strength with which one is endued, which he either possesses or exercises
3) the power of authority (influence) and of right (privilege)
4) the power of rule or government (the power of him whose will and commands must be submitted to by others and obeyed)
4a) universally 4a1) authority over mankind
4b) specifically 4b1) the power of judicial decisions
4b2) of authority to manage domestic affairs
4c) metonymically 4c1) a thing subject to authority or rule
4c1a) jurisdiction
4c2) one who possesses authority
4c2a) a ruler, a human magistrate
4c2b) the leading and more powerful among created beings superior to man, spiritual potentates
4d) a sign of the husband's authority over his wife
4d1) the veil with which propriety required a women to cover herself
4e) the sign of regal authority, a crown
For Synonyms see entry 5820
====
Bullinger, 593 - 3. exousia, (from exesti, ‘it is allowed, one can, it is permitted,’ denying the presence of a hindrance) ‘delegated authority, liberty’ or ‘authority to do anything’; combining the two ideas of right and might. (While No. 1 [duvamis <1411>] implies ‘the ability to make power felt,’ No. 3 ‘affirms that free movement is ensured to the ability.’)

Jn 1:12 - NIV: …to those who believed in his name, he gave the RIGHT to become
children of God –
- NET: …who believe in His Name, He gave the RIGHT to become children of God.
Application: Putting this context together with Bullinger, 593, above, we can see how the Lord graciously removes all hindrances to our adoption when He grants us the faith to believe in
Jesus. And with this right goes the Gospel power (duvamis in Romans 1:16) and the free movement ensured to exercise that ability as God’s children. The Holy Spirit is loading up the gracious terms here like chocolate on vanilla ice cream. [M.C. 12/23/1998]


05043 teknon teknon tek'-non
from the base of 5098; TDNT-5:636,759; n n
AV - child 77, son 21, daughter 1; 99
1) offspring, children
1a) child 1a1) a male child, a son
1b) metaph. 1b1) the name transferred to that intimate and reciprocal relationship formed between men by the bonds of love, friendship, trust, just as between parents and children
1b2) in affectionate address, such as patrons, helpers, teachers and the like employ: my child
1b3) in the NT, pupils or disciples are called children of their teachers, because the latter by their instruction nourish the minds of their pupils and mould their characters
1b4) children of God: in the OT of "the people of Israel" as especially dear to God, in the NT, in Paul's writings, all who are led by the Spirit of God and thus closely related to God
1b5) children of the devil: those who in thought and action are prompted by the devil, and so reflect his character
1c) metaph. 1c1) of anything who depends upon it, is possessed by a desire or affection for it, is addicted to it
1c2) one who is liable to any fate
1c2a) thus children of a city: it citizens and inhabitants
1c3) the votaries of wisdom, those souls who have, as it were, been nurtured and moulded by wisdom
1c4) cursed children, exposed to a curse and doomed to God's wrath or penalty
For Synonyms see entry 5868 & 5943
====
Mt 23:37 - KJV: O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, [thou] that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy CHILDREN together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under [her] wings, and ye would not!
Jesus reveals the heart of God yearning for the salvation of the Jews, the people He chose as His own “treasured possession” (Exodus 19:5; Deuteronomy 7:6; 14:2; 26:18; Psalm 135:4; Malachi 3:17). [M.C. 10/8/1998]

Ac 2:39 - NIV: The promise is for you and your CHILDREN and for all who are far off...
Application: The LORD of mercy kept His promise shortly after the Jews cursed themselves. (See Matthew 27:25.) Peter tells the Jews on Pentecost how they along with all of us
sinful Gentiles have been delivered from the curse of sin through the Jewish Messiah who lived and died and lives again for us all. How the heart of God longs to bring His wayward people back to the riches of His grace in Christ! [M.C. 5/22/1997]

1 Jn 3:1 - NIV: How great is the love the Father has lavished on us, that we should be called CHILDREN of God! And that is what we are! The reason the world does not know us is that it did not know him.



13 oi} oujk ejx aiJmavtwn oujde; ejk qelhvmato" sarko;" oujde; ejk qelhvmato" ajndro;" ajllÆ ejk qeou` ejgennhvqhsan.

13 oi ouk ex aimatwn oude ek yelhmatov sarkov oude ek yelhmatov androv all ek yeou egennhyhsan

1:13 - Which <3739> were born <1080> (5681), not <3756> of <1537> blood <129>, nor <3761> of <1537> the will <2307> of the flesh <4561>, nor <3761> of <1537> the will <2307> of man <435>, but <235> of <1537> God <2316>.

01080 gennaw gennao ghen-nah'-o
from a variation of 1085; TDNT-1:665,114; v
AV - begat 49, be born 39, bear 2, gender 2, bring forth 1, be delivered 1, misc 3; 97
1) of men who fathered children
1a) to be born
1b) to be begotten 1b1) of women giving birth to children
2) metaph.
2a) to engender, cause to arise, excite
2b) in a Jewish sense, of one who brings others over to his way of life, to convert someone
2c) of God making Christ his son
2d) of God making men his sons through faith in Christ's work


00129 aima haima hah'-ee-mah
of uncertain derivation; TDNT-1:172,26; n m
AV - blood 99; 99
1) blood 1a) of man or animals
1b) refers to the seat of life
1c) of those things that resemble blood, grape juice
2) blood shed, to be shed by violence, slay, murder
====
Jn 1:13 - NIV : children born not of NATURAL DESCENT,c …
c 13 Greek of bloods
- NET: They have been born not OF BLOOD…but of God.
Throughout this verse the contrast is between the physical birth and the spiritual rebirth which God brings about through His Means of Grace, His Gospel in Word and sacraments (Acts 22:16; Titus 3:5; 1 Peter 3:21 - KJV). [M.C. 12/23/1998]


02307 yelhma thelema thel'-ay-mah
from the prolonged form of 2309; TDNT-3:52,318; n n
AV - will 62, desire 1, pleasure 1; 64
1) what one wishes or has determined shall be done
1a) of the purpose of God to bless mankind through Christ
1b) of what God wishes to be done by us 1b1) commands, precepts
2) will, choice, inclination, desire, pleasure


04561 sarx sarx sarx
probably from the base of 4563; TDNT-7:98,1000; n f
AV - flesh 147, carnal 2, carnally minded + 5427 1, fleshly 1; 151
1) flesh (the soft substance of the living body, which covers the bones and is permeated with blood) of both man and beasts
2) the body
2a) the body of a man
2b) used of natural or physical origin, generation or relationship
2b1) born of natural generation
2c) the sensuous nature of man, "the animal nature"
2c1) without any suggestion of depravity
2c2) the animal nature with cravings which incite to sin
2c3) the physical nature of man as subject to suffering
3) a living creature (because possessed of a body of flesh) whether man or beast
4) the flesh, denotes mere human nature, the earthly nature of man apart from divine influence, and therefore prone to sin and opposed to God
====
Jn 1:14 - NIV: The Word became FLESH....
“He partook of all the joys and sorrows of a true human existence; there could be no doubt as to the reality of His humanity. While He is and remains the eternal Logos, He is yet true man, subject to time and space, and in every way like unto us in all the natural needs of the flesh, only without sin.” [Kretz., NT I, 407]


00435 aner aner an'-ayr
a primary word cf 444; TDNT-1:360,59; n m
AV - man 156, husband 50, sir 6, fellow 1, not tr 2; 215
1) with reference to sex 1a) of a male
1b) of a husband
1c) of a betrothed or future husband
2) with reference to age, and to distinguish an adult man from a boy
3) any male
4) used generically of a group of both men and women



14 Kai; oJ lovgo" sa;rx ejgevneto kai; ejskhvnwsen ejn hJmi`n, kai; ejqeasavmeqa th;n dovxan aujtou`, dovxan wJ" monogenou`" para; patrov", plhvrh" cavrito" kai; ajlhqeiva".

14 kai o logov sarx egeneto kai eskhnwsen en hmin kai eyeasameya thn doxan autou doxan wv monogenouv para patrov plhrhv caritov kai alhyeiav

1:14 - And <2532> the Word <3056> was made <1096> (5633) flesh <4561>, and <2532> dwelt <4637> (5656) among <1722> us <2254>, (and <2532> we beheld <2300> (5662) his <846> glory <1391>, the glory <1391> as <5613> of the only begotten <3439> of <3844> the Father <3962>,) full <4134> of grace <5485> and <2532> truth <225>.

04637 skhnow skenoo skay-no'-o
from 4636; TDNT-7:385,1040; v
AV - dwell 5; 5
1) to fix one's tabernacle, have one's tabernacle, abide (or live) in a tabernacle (or tent), tabernacle
2) to dwell
====
The Holy Spirit inspired all five New Testament usages of skhnow through the pen of John:
Jn 1:14 - KJV: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt <4637> among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.
- NIV: The Word became flesh and LIVED for a while among us....
- Literal: ...TENTED...among us....
The Old Testament picture of God living, i.e., “tenting” (Nkv <07931>) among the Israelites during all their travels in the desert, of dwelling in Jerusalem where Solomon’s temple was also called “the tent” or “the Tent of Meeting” (1 Chronicles 9:19,21 - NIV) – this picture shines forth in living color in the Person of Jesus Christ, whose name is also Immanuel, “God with us” (Matthew 1:23). [M.C. 12/17/2000]
One year for our Children’s Christmas Service titled, “God Dwells With Us,” we set up a display tent in front of the altar. The tent was open on all sides so that the altar was visible behind the manger with straw and the baby Jesus. On the top of the left support I printed out Nkv on an 8 ½ x 11 sheet of paper as large as my printer would fit. On the right I printed out skhnow. Then as part of our Christmas practices and my sermonette for that service, I taught the children to say the words and what it means that God “tented” among us. For Israelites the Feast of the Tabernacles which commemorated their Exodus encampments, foreshadowed a joyous family camping trip feel of God “tenting” among us in Christ.
After the service a young woman from our ministerial college, MLC in New Ulm, Minnesota, pointed to the tent and asked, “Is that ‘SHAKAN’ OR ‘SAKAN’?” Without the pointing one cannot tell. “Amanda,” I asked incredulously. “How is it that you know how to read Hebrew?” “Some of my pastoral ministry friends at MLC have been teaching me a little,” she replied. “So which is it?” I then explained, “Shakan.”
Our congregational president was working for the Department of Transportation. Other workers sharing stories about their church’s Christmas services sounded somewhat envious when he told them how he learned the Hebrew and Greek for God “tenting” among us.
A year later when someone asked for the Greek word for “tenting,” I was still trying to remember when one of the older children blurted out, “Skhnow!”
It continues to amaze me how God’s people love to learn the Holy Spirit’s own words by which He has so wonderfully communicated to us the salvation of our souls! [M.C. 12/24/2004]

Re 7:15 - TR: …kai o kayhmenov epi tou yronou skhnwsei ep autouv
- KJV: Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell <4637> among them.
- NIV: ...and he who sits on the throne WILL SPREAD HIS TENT over them.
- Literal: ...WILL TENT upon them.

Re 12:12 - TR: dia touto eufrainesye oi ouranoi kai oi en autoiv skhnountev …
- KJV: Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell <4637> in them. Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time.
- NIV: Therefore rejoice, you heavens and you who DWELL in them!...
- Literal: ...and those in them TENTING...

Re 13:6 - TR: kai hnoixen to stoma autou eiv blasfhmian prov ton yeon blasfhmhsai to onoma autou kai thn skhnhn autou kai touv en tw ouranw skhnountav
- KJV: And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell <4637> in heaven.
- NIV: ...and to slander [God's] name and his dwelling place and those who LIVE in heaven.
- Literal: ...to blaspheme his name and the tent <4633> of his, those in the heaven LIVING.

Re 21:3 - TR: kai hkousa fwnhv megalhv ek tou ouranou legoushv idou h skhnh tou yeou meta twn anyrwpwn
kai skhnwsei met autwn
kai autoi laoi autou esontai
kai autov o yeov estai met autwn yeov autwn
- KJV: And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell <4637> with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God.
- NIV: ...Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he WILL LIVE with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. 4 He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away.
- Literal: ...Behold the tent <4633> of God [is] with men, and HE WILL TENT with them....
Note the three-kai construction in the Greek. In the symbolic number language of Revelation the three-part construction signifies the Trinity whose gracious presence is promised in this verse. [M.C. 12/17/2000]

Application: The import of these references, especially where God is said to “tent” with His people, is the constant presence of God with His own, no matter where they go. As Martin Luther
was fond of saying to his children, “God will be with you wherever you go.” The author of Kitty My Rib emphasizes this about Luther, how comforted he was by the Lord’s presence, and how this truth comforted Luther’s children when their father was taken home to heaven. Children in our day would be so much better off spiritually and emotionally if they were given the solid comfort of the Lord’s constant presence rather than the dubious comfort of well-wishers at funerals saying, “I’m sure your father/mother/etc. is looking down on you.” Nothing in Scripture remotely suggests this possibility. But the fact of the Lord’s constant care and attention are everywhere expressed and often repeated in the Aaronic Blessing at the close of Lutheran liturgical services. [M.C. 12/21/1996]


02300 yeaomai theaomai theh-ah’-om-ahee
a prolonged form of a primary verb; TDNT-5:315,706; v
AV - see 20, behold 2, look 1, look upon 1; 24
1) to behold, look upon, view attentively, contemplate (often used of public shows)
1a) of important persons that are looked on with admiration
2) to view, take a view of
2a) in the sense of visiting, meeting with a person
3) to learn by looking, to see with the eyes, to perceive
For Synonyms see entry 5848
====
Jn 1:14 - NIV: ...We HAVE SEEN his glory....
The NIV does not reflect the intensity of the looking expressed with yeaomai. Among the 24 NT usages are examples of Pharisees doing good works to be “seen” by men, obviously in a way that would give them the close observation and attention of actors on a stage, the Greek hypocrites. We are told with yeaomai that the disciples looked upon the resurrected Christ, certainly with the close scrutiny of men who thought Him dead and now would want to make sure of their eyes. Also the women are said to yeaomai the grave where Jesus had been laid, no doubt looking for evidence of grave robbers or some explanation for why the grave was empty. [M.C. 12/21/1996]
Kretzmann puts it this way: “And while He did not make an open, triumphant show of the divine nature which was His even in the state of humiliation, yet, the evangelist writes, ‘We viewed His glory.’ The disciples had a good and full opportunity to convince themselves by close and intimate scrutiny upon many occasions that He was truly the Son of God, the eternal Logos.” 15


01391 doxa doxa dox'-ah
from the base of 1380; TDNT-2:233,178; n f
AV - glory 145, glorious 10, honour 6, praise 4, dignity 2, worship 1; 168
1) opinion, judgment, view
2) opinion, estimate, whether good or bad concerning someone
2a) in the NT always a good opinion concerning one, resulting in praise, honor, and glory
3) splendor, brightness
3a) of the moon, sun, stars
3b) magnificence, excellence, preeminence, dignity, grace
3c) majesty
3c1) a thing belonging to God
3c1a) the kingly majesty which belongs to him as supreme ruler, majesty in the sense of the absolute perfection of the deity
3c2) a thing belonging to Christ
3c2a) the kingly majesty of the Messiah
3c2b) the absolutely perfect inward or personal excellency of Christ; the majesty
3c3) of the angels
3c3a) as apparent in their exterior brightness
4) a most glorious condition, most exalted state
4a) of that condition with God the Father in heaven to which Christ was raised after he had achieved his work on earth
4b) the glorious condition of blessedness into which is appointed and promised that true Christians shall enter after their Savior's return from heaven
====
Cf. Becker’s notes on Romans 3:7 - “Someone might argue, ‘If my falsehood enhances God’s truthfulness and so increases his glory, why am I still condemned as a sinner?’” (Exe. Ntbk.):
1) doxa apparently comes from dokew (“seem, it seems to me” – an opinion, good/bad –Everyone has an opinion about God even if it is only that of the Atheist.
2) “good opinion” – Only believers have this about God. Unbelievers and unfortunately, our sinful natures, want to blame God first for all the evil that happens to us and around us in the world.
3) to express good opinion of someone = “praise” – i.e., the public telling what is so great and good about God. This is part of “calling on the name of the Lord” (Romans 10:13).
4) basis for good opinion, the excellence spoken of in the good opinion = “glory” – The Day will come when everyone will actually see this and admit it openly – believers in joy, unbelievers in terror. The awesome majesty of Jesus Christ will be unmistakable on the Last Great Day.
God's GLORY has always been to love us undeserving sinners. (See comments about Ps 136 below.) At last everyone will see how loving God really was all along. But for many it will be too late. [M.C. 4/14/2000]

Lu 2:14 - KJV: GLORY to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men.
Spoken by the angels at the Christmas birth announcement, to the empowering amazement of the shepherds. [M.C. 12/24/1997]
Lu 19:38 - NIV: “Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord!” “Peace in heaven and GLORY in the highest!”
At the Triumphal Entry to the rebuke of the Pharisees in the crowd.

doxa is emphasized in John’s Gospel by the multiple usages in fifteen verses sampled below:
Jn 1:14 - KJV: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory <1391>, the glory <1391> as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.
- NIV: ...We have seen his GLORY, the GLORY of the one and only Son, who came from the Father, full of grace and truth.
- Literal: ...the GLORY of him, GLORY as of only begotten along side the Father, full of grace and truth.
Kretzmann: “He still possessed the glory, the supernatural glory, of the only-begotten Son of the Father, Ps 2,7.” 16
Related Passage: “The kings of the earth take their stand and the rulers gather together against the LORD and against his Anointed One” (Psalm 2:7).
Jn 2:11 - KJV: This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory <1391>; and his disciples believed on him.
Jn 5:41 - KJV: I receive not honour <1391> from men.
Jn 5:44 - KJV: How can ye believe, which receive honour <1391> one of another, and seek not the honour <1391> that cometh from God only?
There is certainly more involved with the “glory” of God than His shining, “supernatural glory,” noted by Kretzmann above. In reference to Romans 3:7, above, Dr. Siegbert Becker carefully traced for us in class the connection between doxa and dokew, showing how an opinion, generic (good/bad) in its essence, when it became a good opinion was expressed in “praise” (another translation of doxa), and was ultimately based on something very good and excellent. God’s excellence is called His “glory” for which He deserves our praise, our good opinions at all times, even in the midst of trouble (Romans 5:3-6; 8:28).
God’s doxa -goodness is unique in that there is no one as good as He. Thus God is said to be “perfect” (Matthew 5:48 - tevleio" = “complete”), without needing any improvement whatsoever. He is so completely good that He “causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous” (Matthew 5:45). This same perfection-completeness He demands of us.
But who can be “perfect” like God? This is the question of David: “Who may ascend the hill of the LORD? Who may stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart...” (Psalm 24:3f). Is David excluding himself by constantly confessing his sin and calling God, “my Savior” (25:5)?
Therein lies the answer. The full glorious brilliance of God is what He told His people, “I am the LORD, who makes you holy” (Levitcus 20:8). When we think of all the unholy things about God’s people, the Israelites, it is amazing to read Psalm 136 and see how God’s “love [Chesed] endures forever” in spite of their (our) unfaithfulness to Him. God’s glory is to love undeserving sinners like us. In fact, nothing shows God’s independence, His full, unfettered glory, more brightly than His unquestionable authority to forgive the worst of sinners.
When the glory of God-in-the-flesh was ready to shine, He intentionally included in His genealogy four sinful, outsider women: Tamar, who posed as a prostitute in order to commit incest with Judah, her father-in-law; Rahab, the harlot from Jericho; Ruth, a foreigner from the wicked people of Moab; and Bathsheba, the adulterous wife of Uriah the Hittite (Matthew 1:3,5,6).
What religious “redactor” or “editor” in his right mind would include such women along with murderers like David, or polygamists like Solomon in the genealogy of the One they call “God” and “Lord”? The Bible does not contain the kind of religious “myths” which negative critics insist were written by religious people to make the populace more religious and more loyal to a particular religion.
Such self-righteous critics of the Holy Scriptures could easily line up with the jeering crowds at a penitentiary when a mass murderer is to be executed. They would wish him a speedy trip to hell, self-assured that such a fate could never overtake them. They would be incensed to hear that such a scoundrel was also forgiven and justified by God through Universal Justification when Christ died and rose again (2 Corinthians 5:19; 1 John 1:7). They would be consumed by rage if told that they would go to hell if they did not trust in Jesus as their Savior. Yet this is true according to Jesus’ own words: “Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned” (Mark 16:16).
Unless the criminal to be executed rejected his Savior in unbelief, his repentant faith given by God (Ephesians 2:8f) would be the hand that receives the gift of eternal life. Is this not the glorious comfort Jesus gave the dying thief who by his own admission deserved to be crucified? Yet Jesus says, “Today you will be with me in paradise” (Luke 23:43) – not even a mention of a stopover in purgatory!
Truly in Christ Jesus we see the doxa -glory of the LORD, the God of free and faithful grace, who can forgive whomever He chooses and condemn the self-righteous accordingly. “And all who have raged against him will come to him and be put to shame” (Isaiah 45:24). [M.C. 12/21/1996]

Luther: “To attribute glory to God is to believe in Him, to regard Him as truthful, wise, righteous, merciful, and almighty, in short, to acknowledge Him as the Author and Donor of every good. Reason does not do this, but faith does....To be able to attribute such glory to God is wisdom beyond wisdom, righteousness beyond righteousness, religion beyond religion, and sacrifice beyond sacrifice. From this it can be understood what great righteousness faith is and, by antithesis, what a great sin unbelief is.” 17


03439 monogenhv monogenes mon-og-en-ace'
from 3441 and 1096; TDNT-4:737,606; adj
AV - only begotten 6, only 2, only child 1; 9
1) single of its kind, only
1a) used of only sons or daughters (viewed in relation to their parents)
1b) used of Christ, denotes the only begotten son of God
====
The Holy Spirit inspired at least nine usages of monogenhv in His holy writers:
Lu 7:12 - KJV: Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only <3439> son of his mother, and she was a widow….
Lu 8:42 - KJV: For he had one only <3439> daughter, about twelve years of age….
Lu 9:38 - KJV: …Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son: for he is mine only child <3439>.

Jn 1:14 - KJV: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten <3439> of the Father,) full of grace and truth.
- NIV: …the glory of THE ONE AND ONLY Son…
- NET: …the glory of the Father's ONE-AND-ONLYg Son…
g – 14 The Greek word for “one-and-only” can also mean His “one-of-a-kind” (“unique”) or “only-begotten”; see MONOGENES, on page 542. [below]
Jn 1:18 - KJV: No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten <3439> Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.
Jn 3:16 - KJV: For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten <3439> Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
- NET: For God loved the world so much that He gave His one-and-only e Son, so that everyone who believes in Him would not perish but have everlasting life.
e – 16 The Greek word for “one-and-only” can also mean His “one-of-a-kind” (“unique”) or “only-begotten”; see MONOGENES, on page 542. [below]
Jn 3:18 - KJV: He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten <3439> Son of God.
He 11:17 - KJV: By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten <3439> son,
1 Jn 4:9 - KJV: In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten <3439> Son into the world, that we might live through him.

6. Monogenes – summary notes:
Greek has two words meaning “to beget,” one with the stem of genn- (double n) the other with gin- (or gen- past tense). [single n]
Genn- has only one meaning: “to beget” Double -nn makes it unlikely that monogenes comes from this stem.
Gen- more likely the root of monogenes. Two meanings of Gen-
1) “to come into existence, to be born / begotten”
2) “to be, to exist”
This stem used 2x to refer to Jesus’ birth as a human being (Romans 1:3; Galatians 4:4), but never regarding Jesus being “begotten” of the Father.
Question: Does -genes mean “begotten” / “existing”?
NT use of monogenes (gen- w/single n):
Luke - 3x for the “only” child of widow of Nain (7:12), daughter of Jairus (8:42), man’s demon-possessed son (9:38) - each called “monogenes” child.
Hebrews - Isaac called Abraham’s “monogenes” son (11:17).
Most translations, incl. KJV translate these 4 references: “only,” not “only-begotten.”
John - 5x (1:14,18; 3:16,18; 1 Jn 4:9) - in all 5 either translation will work: “only-begotten” / “only-existing” (i.e., “one-and-only,” “the only-one-there-is,” “one-of-a-kind,” “unique”).
Since only John uses monogenes exculsively for Jesus, we cannot say for sure which translation is correct, because either fits the context and usage of the rest of the NT.
Ecumenical Creeds’ use of monogenes:
Nicene Creed - confesses Christians believe that Jesus was “begotten of the Father from all eternity” (the eternal generation of Christ). This is true even without translating monogenes as “only-begotten.” [The Church does not base its beliefs and teachings on questionable translations!] “Every passage in Scripture which refers to God as the Father of Jesus (e.g., 1 Pe 1:3; 1 Th 1:1) and to Jesus as the Father’s Son (e.g., Ro 1:3; 8:32; 1 Jn 1:7) teaches that the Son derives His essence from the Father through the eternal generation,18 not through His human birth.”
The German Nicene Creed translates monogenes with “einig” (“only”).
Apostles’ Creed - Greek uses monogenes which is translated into English as “only,” Latin as “unicus,” and German as “einig.”
“From this it is clear that monogenes has not always been translated with “only-begotten” in the history of the Christian church.”
NETNT resolution:
In the four passages [above] where monogenes does not refer to Jesus, NET translates: “only.”
In the five passages of John [listed above] where monogenes does refer to Jesus, NET translates: “one-and only” and includes a footnote of the possible meaning “the only-existing” (“one-and-only,” “the only-one-there-is,” “one-of-a-kind,” or “unique”), or possibly the special meaning “only-begotten.” 19 [M.C. 12/23/1996]


03962 pathr pater pat-ayr'
apparently a root word; TDNT-5:945,805; n m
AV - Father 268, father 150; 419
1) generator or male ancestor
1a) either the nearest ancestor: father of the corporeal nature, natural fathers, both parents
1b) a more remote ancestor, the founder of a family or tribe, progenitor of a people, forefather: so Abraham is called, Jacob and David
1b1) fathers, i.e., ancestors, forefathers, founders of a nation
1c) one advanced in years, a senior
2) metaph.
2a) the originator and transmitter of anything
2a1) the authors of a family or society of persons animated by the same spirit as himself
2a2) one who has infused his own spirit into others, who actuates and governs their minds
2b) one who stands in a father's place and looks after another in a paternal way
2c) a title of honour
2c1) teachers, as those to whom pupils trace back the knowledge and training they have received
2c2) the members of the Sanhedrin, whose prerogative it was by virtue of the wisdom and experience in which they excelled, to take charge of the interests of others
3) God is called the Father
3a) of the stars, the heavenly luminaries, because he is their creator, upholder, ruler
3b) of all rational and intelligent beings, whether angels or men, because he is their creator, preserver, guardian and protector
3b1) of spiritual beings and of all men
3c) of Christians, as those who through Christ have been exalted to a specially close and intimate relationship with God, and who no longer dread him as a stern judge of sinners, but revere him as their reconciled and loving Father
3d) the Father of Jesus Christ, as one whom God has united to himself in the closest bond of love and intimacy, made acquainted with his purposes, appointed to explain and carry out among men the plan of salvation, and made to share also in his own divine nature
3d1) by Jesus Christ himself
3d2) by the apostles
====
Lu 16:24 - NIV: So he called to him, “FATHER, Abraham, have pity on me….”
Three times in this text (Luke 16:19-31) the rich man in hell refers to Abraham as his “Father.” (See also vv. 27,30.) However, Abraham is the “father of all who believe” (Romans 4:11). The rich man's failure to show pity to poor Lazarus is a clear indication of damning unbelief. Sins of omission are just as serious as sins of commission. [M.C. 10/8/1998]

Lord's Prayer: “Our Father, who art in heaven...”(Luther’s Small Catechism)
“What does this mean? With these words God tenderly invites us to believe that he is our true Father and that we are his true children, so that we may pray to him as boldly and confidently as dear children ask their dear father.”
Luther reflects this beautiful concept by translating the Address: “Vater unser, der du bist im Himmel…,” thus using the familiar du, rather than the polite and formal, Sie sind… for the 2nd person singular address.
Likewise Luther translates the simple prayer of Romans 8:15: “Abba, lieber Vater…,” as we might say, “Father dear….” [M.C. 5/8/1999]

Related Passage:
He 4:15f – For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are – yet was without sin. Let us then approach the throne of grace with confidence, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need.


04134 plhrhv pleres play'-race
from 4130; TDNT-6:283,867; adj
AV - full 17; 17
1) full, i.e. filled up (as opposed to empty) 1a) of hollow vessels
1b) of a surface, covered in every part
1c) of the soul, thoroughly permeated with
2) full, i.e., complete 2a) lacking nothing, perfect
====
The Holy Spirit inspired His holy writers to use plhrhv at least eight times in the Gospels including:
Jn 1:14 - NIV: “...FULL of grace and truth.”
Also of the baskets “full” after the feeding of the 5,000 and again after the feeding of the 4,000.
Also of Jesus “full” of the Holy Spirit after His baptism by John in the Jordan River (Luke 4:1) another instance of the Christian Church’s “one baptism” (Ephesians 4:5) in which the Holy Spirit is given. [M.C. 3/2/2001]

Ac 6:3,5,8; 7:55 - of deacons, incl. Stephen “FULL of faith and the Holy Spirit.”
Ac 9:36 - of Tabitha, Dorcas “FULL of good works....”(KJV), “always doing good and helping the poor” (NIV).
Ac 11:24 - of Barnabas “FULL of the Holy Spirit and faith.”
Ac 13:10 - of Elymas the sorcerer “FULL of all kinds of deceit and trickery.”
Ac 19:28 - Ephesians “FULL of wrath” (KJV), “furious” (NIV) re. Artemis their idol goddess.

2 Jn 8 - NIV: Watch out that you do not lose what you have worked for, but that you may be rewarded FULLY.

These references remind us of the Good Shepherd’s care: “My cup overflows” (Psalm 23:5), and one of the Apostle Paul’s favorite words to describe the goodness of God in and upon His people: perisseuvw – “overflowing, bountiful,” etc. [M.C. 12/23/1996]


05485 cariv charis khar'-ece
from 5463; TDNT-9:372,1298; n f
AV - grace 130, favour 6, thanks 4, thank 4, thank + 2192 3, pleasure 2, misc 7; 156
1) grace
1a) that which affords joy, pleasure, delight, sweetness, charm, loveliness: grace of speech
2) good will, loving-kindness, favour
2a) of the merciful kindness by which God, exerting his holy influence upon souls, turns them to Christ, keeps, strengthens, increases them in Christian faith, knowledge, affection, and kindles them to the exercise of the Christian virtues
3) what is due to grace
3a) the spiritual condition of one governed by the power of divine grace
3b) the token or proof of grace, benefit 3b1) a gift of grace
3b2) benefit, bounty
4) thanks, (for benefits, services, favours), recompense, reward
====
The simplest meaning: “undeserved love,” “undeserved favor.” Throughout the Holy Scriptures God makes it clear that human beings can do nothing to make themselves worthy or deserving of “grace.” Otherwise it is no longer “grace,” but works. (Cf. Romans 4:5).
God’s GRACE in the Christmas story, filling Jesus:
Lu 1:30 - NIV: ...Do not be afraid, Mary, you have found FAVOR with God.
- Literal: ...you have found GRACE with God.
Lu 2:40 - NIV: And the child [Jesus] grew and became strong; he was filled with wisdom, and the GRACE of God was upon him.
Lu 2:52 - NIV: And Jesus grew in wisdom and stature, and in FAVOR [GRACE] with God and men.
Lu 4:22 - NIV: All [in Nazareth] spoke well of him and were amazed at the GRACIOUS words that came from his lips....
- Literal: ...at the words of GRACE which were coming from his mouth....
Jesus shows how far short of grace we fall:
Lu 6:32 - Literal: And if you love those who love you, what sort of GRACE for you is [that]? Also indeed the sinners love those who love them.
Lu 6:33 - Literal: And if you do good those who do good you, what sort of GRACE to you is [that]? Even the sinners do the same.
Lu 6:34 - Literal: And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive, what sort of GRACE to you [is that]? Even sinners lend to sinners in order to receive back the equal things.
Jesus again points out that His grace toward His disciples is not a matter of works or of something He owes them because of their hard work:
Lu 17:9 - NIV: Would he thank [have GRACE to] the servant because he did what he was told to do? [Read Jesus’ conclusion v.10.]

Jn 1:14 - NIV: ...full of GRACE and truth.
Jn 1:16 - NIV: From the fullness of his GRACE we have all received one blessing after another.
- NET: For all of us have received one gift of GRACE after another from the fullness of His GRACE. (cf. NET f.n.)
- Literal: For out of the fullness of him we have all received, also GRACE upon GRACE.

Illustration: Like so many religious concepts, “grace” is turned upside down by Hollywood. One example is the short-lived 1990’s series called “The Lazarus Man,” featuring
Robert Urich. In one disturbing episode he is asked by a girl in a religious settlement: “What are you willing to give for grace?” The show echoes a common misconception among American churches, namely, that it is necessary to give something for “grace.”
This is also the problem with semi-pelagianism in the Roman Catholic Church. When something must be given for “grace,” it is no longer “grace” in the Biblical sense. It rather becomes man’s work, man’s effort, man’s sacrifice to somehow appease God.
No wonder stories like the “The Lazarus Man” end empty and sad. Only God’s true “grace” in Christ can fill the God-shaped vessel of the human heart. [M.C. 12/23/1996]
Grace is no longer grace when any of man’s work or merit is added. [M.C. 7/3/1997]

2 Co 12:9 - NIV: My GRACE is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness....

Ph 1:7 - KJV: ...ye all are partakers of my GRACE.
- NIV: ...all of you share in God’s GRACE with me.
- NET: ...as people who share God’s GRACE with me.
After Paul was miraculously included by faith in God’s grace, he spent the rest of his life in thankful wonder, working with all God’s gospel-energy (Colossians 1:29) to share God’s grace with others. The Philippians became partakers in God’s grace to Paul when the Lord called them “out of darkness into his wonderful light” (1 Peter 2:9). Their “partnership in the gospel” meant that they, together with Paul, were enjoying God’s “grace in which we now stand” (Romans 5:2). [M.C. 12/4/1997]


00225 alhyeia aletheia al-ay'-thi-a
from 227; TDNT-1:232,37; n f
AV - truth 107, truly + 1909 1, true 1, verity 1; 110
1) objectively
1a) what is true in any matter under consideration
1a1) truly, in truth, according to truth
1a2) of a truth, in reality, in fact, certainly
1b) what is true in things appertaining to God and the duties of man, moral and religious truth
1b1) in the greatest latitude
1b2) the true notions of God which are open to human reason without his supernatural intervention
1c) the truth as taught in the Christian religion, respecting God and the execution of his purposes through Christ, and respecting the duties of man, opposing alike to the superstitions of the Gentiles and the inventions of the Jews, and the corrupt opinions and precepts of false teachers even among Christians
2) subjectively
2a) truth as a personal excellence
2a1) that candour of mind which is free from affection, pretence, simulation, falsehood, deceit
====
Jn 1:14 - KJV: And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth <225>.
- NIV: …full of grace and TRUTH.
Application: Jesus is not like so many in our day who tell only as much truth as they absolutely must. Jesus is filled up and overflowing with truth. Truth is all He speaks. In fact, truth is His essence. (See John 14:6 below.) [M.C. 12/23/1998]
Jn 1:17 - KJV: For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth <225> came by Jesus Christ.
Jn 8:31f - Literal: If you remain (menw) in the word which is mine, truly disciples of mine you are, and you will know (experientially - ginwskw) the TRUTH, and the TRUTH will make you free.
Application: So how can anyone consider “truth” to be a relative thing, “What’s true for you may not be true for me and visa versa”? Objective truth stands whether one believes it or not, as when
my great-Grandpa Werner refused to believe until the day he died (age 93, 1972) that Americans had landed on the moon. “It’s a conspiracy!” he shouted that summer evening in 1969, when I ran down to tell him they were showing the landing on TV. Grandpa’s disbelief did not change the facts. Nor is it right to consider “the truth” of Scripture too difficult to be known for sure. “Your word is a lamp for my feet and a light for my path” (Psalm 119:105) speaks of the clarity, or perspicuity of God’s holy Word. Just remain in the Word of the Lord Jesus Christ, growing in grace and wisdom as He did, and experience the joy and peace of knowing God’s truth. [M.C. 5/2/1996]
Application: Our difficulty in this “post-modern” age is to reach a new generation raised on Friedrich Nietzsche’s nihilist dictum that “there are no facts, only interpretations.” Gospel outreach
is made more difficult because most churches say the Bible is “just a matter of interpretation.” In seeking new ways to communicate God’s ancient and eternal truth, we dare not forget that the Gospel itself is “the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes” (Romans 1:16). We need to keep proclaiming God’s objective “truth” to all who have not yet gone where Nietzsche has gone. [M.C. 4/29/2000]
Jn 14:6 - NIV: Jesus answered, “I am the way and the TRUTH and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.”
Jn 18:37 - KJV: Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth <225>. Every one that is of the truth <225> heareth my voice.
Jn 18:38 - KJV: Pilate saith unto him, What is truth <225>? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all.
Application: The fact that Pilate is the last of John’s twenty usages of alhyeia in his Gospel to ask a question like this of Jesus indicates that Nietzsche’s nihilism (See on 8:31f above.) is nothing new. What a shame for all the “original thinkers” that it was already true 1000 years before Christ that “there is nothing new under the sun” (Ecclesiastes 1:9). [M.C. 10/29/2001]

1 Jn 1:6 - NIV: If we claim to have fellowship with him yet walk in darkness, we lie and do not live by the TRUTH.
1 Jn 4:6 - NIV: We are from God, and whoever knows God listens to us; but whoever is not from God does not listen to us. This is how we recognize the Spirit of TRUTH and the spirit of falsehood.
Once again the Holy Spirit shows the lie behind the modern fallacy that the “truth is relative” and therefore cannot really be known. [M.C. 5/1/1997]

Clarence W. Hull: “Easter means you can put truth in the grave, but it won’t stay there.”



S#339 = John 1:14 CHRISTMAS 2 Series A 01/03/1993
TLH 95
WE HAVE SEEN HIS GLORY
I. Tenting among us
II. Full of grace and truth


S#392 = John 1:6-8,19-24 ADVENT 3 Series B 12/12/1993
CW 11
SHARE JOHN'S SHINING CONFESSION
I. Know yourself. (vv.19-23)
II. Know your mission. (vv.24-25,6-8)
III. Know your Savior. (vv.26-28)


S#558 = John 1:14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series B 12/25/1997
CW 67
WE HAVE SEEN GOD'S GLORY
I. In human flesh and blood
II. Full of grace and truth


S#675 = John 1:1-14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series A 12/25/1998
CW 67
THIS CHILD IS IMMANUEL
I. Eternal Creator (vv.1-5)
II. Powerful Light (vv.6-13)
III. Present Glory (v.14)


S#834 = John 1:1-14 CHRISTMAS DAY Series A 12/25/2001
CW 48
When Christmas Morn Is Dawning
I. The Light of God shines. (vv.1-9)
II. We see God’s glory. (vv.10-14)
1 Aland, Kurt, Black, Matthew, Martini, Carlo M., Metzger, Bruce M., and Wikgren, Allen, The Greek New Testament, (Deutsche Bibelgesellschaft Stuttgart) 1983. Without Logos on your computer this may appear as boxes. [M.C. 4/17/2007]
2 The public domain Greek is from the Textus Receptus, used by the KJV translators in 1611. The Online Bible Greek font transmits electronically. [M.C. 4/17/2007]
3 Bullinger, Ethelbert W. A CRITICAL LEXICON AND CONCORDANCE TO THE ENGLISH AND GREEK NEW TESTAMENT. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Zondervan, First Zondervan printing 1975; Sixth printing, January 1979, p. 593.
4 Scripture take from the HOLY BIBLE, NEW INTERNATIONAL VERSION ®. NIV ®. Copyright © 1973, 1978, 1984 by International Bible Society. Used by permission of Zondervan Publishing House. All rights reserved.
5 Bente, F., Concordia Triglotta. Smalcald Articles, III, VIII, 3, 10. Milwaukee, WI: NPH, 1997.
6 A.G. – Arndt, Gingrich, pp. 412f. Most recent: Arndt, W., Gingrich, F. W., Danker, F. W., & Bauer, W. (1996, c1979). A Greek-English lexicon of the New Testament and other early Christian literature. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
7 Ham, Ken. The Lie: Evolution. Copyright 1987, by Ken Ham. Used by permission in The Online Bible, which bundles many helpful works in its easy-to-use software available at www.answersingenesis.com.
8 Becker, Siegbert W. REVELATION The Distant Triumph Song. (Northwestern Publ. House, Milwaukee, Wisc.) 1985, p. 56.
9 Becker, Siegbert W. REVELATION The Distant Triumph Song. (Northwestern Publ. House, Milwaukee, Wisc.) 1985, p. 56.
10 Becker, Siegbert W. REVELATION The Distant Triumph Song. (Northwestern Publ. House, Milwaukee, Wisc.) 1985, p. 72.
11 Becker, Siegbert W. The Foolishness of God: the place of reason in the theology of Martin Luther. Northwestern Publishing House, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 1982.
12 Holy Bible: New Testament—New Evangelical Translation. Copyright © 1992 God's Word to the Nations Bible Society. Cleveland: NET Publishing, 1992, pp. 530f.
13 Becker, Siegbert W. REVELATION The Distant Triumph Song. (Northwestern Publ. House, Milwaukee, Wisc.) 1985, p.59.
14 Cassell’s German-English / English-German Dictionary, First Macmillan Revised Edition, 1978.
15 Kretzmann, Paul E. Popular Commentary Of The Bible. St. Louis, Missouri: Concordia Publ. House, 1924. NT I, p. 407.
16 Kretzmann, Paul E. Popular Commentary Of The Bible. St. Louis, Missouri: Concordia Publ.House, 1924. NT I, 407.
17 Luther’s Works, American Edition. Vol. 26, p.227
18 NETNT footnote: Louis J. Roehm, “The Person of Christ,” The Abiding Word, ed. Theodore Laetsch (Saint Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1955), I, 21. This volume also has a brief explanation of the eternal Sonship of Jesus.
19 HOLY BIBLE: New Testament – New Evangelical Translation (NETNT), Second edition (January 1992), with major revisions, 15,000 copies. (Cleveland, Ohio: NET Publishing), 1992, pp.542-544.
< 上页 下页 >
最后更新于 2012年7月24日 星期二 08:45
回到页首
