---
weight: 0
slug: new-testament-overview-0
title:  Syllabus of New Testament Overview ( 课程提纲）
author: Dr. William B.Kessel
kecheng: New Testament Overview
---

Syllabus of New Testament Overview ( 课程提纲）
New Testament Overview
CSI Core Course
Teacher: Jon -- barejm@gmail.com / 15210157844
**Course Overview: ** This course will be an overview study of the New Testament.
**Course Materials: ** Bible Course Materials – Textbook and Worksheets handed out in class (Bilingual) Extra Materials: Extra materials may be borrowed from the FoC library as needed.
**Course Goals: ** By the end of this course, the students... 1. Know the names and order of the NT books in English and Chinese so that can quickly find them. 2. Know the basic background of each book – the situation of its writing, time, to whom, etc. 3. Know a basic outline for each book. 4. Know the basic content – can summarize the book in a few sentences. 5. Remember one or two key passages from each book. 6. Have read the entire New Testament. 7. Demonstrated a thorough knowledge of the course materials (through quizzes and the final exam). 8. Have prepared a final project “My NT Handbook” (information handed out separately) due in class on June 7th.
Grading: The following grade scale and final grade rubric will be used.
90-100 = A
80-89 = B
70-79 = C
60-69 = D
00-59 = F
Final Grade (100%) = Bible Reading and Daily Work (40%) + Final Project (30%) + Final Exam (30%).
A student may be excused from 3 days of class (6 classes total). If they miss more than 20 minutes of one class period, it will count as missing that entire class. If 4 days are missed, the student may still receive credit if missed class content (quizzes, tests, presentations, etc.) is made up and the student's final grade is 75% or better.
Course Outline: Each week will consist in two 55 minute class periods. There are a total of 14 weeks of class (28 class periods) and a final week for the exam.
